SEO & AEO Laws, Algorithms and Decision Models
Aug 13, 2026, 10:03 AM

SEO & AEO Laws, Algorithms and Decision Models

Technical Summary
This is now a self-contained rules book. Citations remain so a rule can be audited, but the action, measurement method, benchmark, formula, reasoning and exception are written here.
Every statement has an evidence class. Search-engine rules are separated from human-behavior research, industry methods and house laws. A tool score is never allowed to masquerade as a Google rule.
Every page element has a job. The H1 is not “put the keyword here.” It is the dominant on-page promise: a cold reader should know what the page is about, what job it performs and why it is the correct page.
Better is defined mathematically and behaviorally. A change must improve a valid metric against the correct baseline or matched comparison, while preserving truth, intent, accessibility, user comprehension and business value.
The ranking formula is secret; the decision system is not. This edition models search as a partially observable pipeline and converts claims about E-E-A-T, Reddit, LinkedIn and AI citations into hypotheses with measurable competing explanations.
Authority is treated as measurable capital. The manual now separates ranking outcomes from ranking capacity, decomposes domain/topic/page/author/entity/platform authority, and measures inheritance, transfer, ownership, decay and compounding.

The 20 Governing Laws
Business outcomes outrank vanity metrics. Qualified conversions and contribution value are primary; clicks, impressions, rankings and tool scores diagnose the path.
Eligibility precedes relevance. A page must be accessible, renderable, indexable and canonical before content optimization can matter.
One intent gets one primary URL. Synonyms and close variants belong together when Google returns substantially the same results.
The SERP reveals the currently rewarded interpretation, not eternal truth. Use it to identify intent, format and competition; do not copy it.
No page exists without a defined user job.
No page publishes without unique value. Original evidence, experience, data, tools, examples, interpretation or a materially clearer workflow must be present.
The answer appears before the elaboration.
Headings describe meaning, not font size or keyword placement.
Every material factual claim has a source, owner and review condition.
Trust must be visible at the moment of risk. Credentials hidden on another page do not help a reader making a high-stakes decision now.
Internal links route both people and discovery. Every link must predict its destination.
Authority is earned from relevant independent sources. Purchased or engineered link patterns are prohibited.
Structured data describes reality; it never invents it.
Psychology may improve comprehension, never manipulate or mislead.
A test requires a hypothesis, baseline, comparison, observation window and decision rule before launch.
A change is not a win because a graph rose afterward. Seasonality, position, device, query mix, competitors and algorithm changes must be considered.
No fixed word count, keyword density, H1 length or backlink quota is treated as a ranking law.
Scale only after a pattern wins.
Every release has a receipt: URLs, old state, new state, reason, owner, date, expected effect and observed result.
Legal, safety, accessibility and factual integrity override growth.

Evidence Hierarchy and Language Rules
Use the strongest available evidence. When two sources conflict, the higher level controls unless a documented context difference explains the conflict.

Use these labels in recommendations:

Required: documented platform, legal, accessibility or security requirement.
Supported: backed by direct data or credible controlled evidence.
Probable: several consistent observations with plausible mechanism.
Hypothesis: reasonable but unproven; must be tested.
Unknown: insufficient evidence; do not convert uncertainty into a rule.
Google’s quality-rater guidance informs what its systems are designed to reward, but rater scores do not directly change an individual page’s ranking. Likewise, Ahrefs, Semrush and SISTRIX observe the search landscape; they do not possess Google’s internal ranking data.

Evidence hierarchy


Level

Evidence class

Typical authority

Use

Interpretation
1	Engine rule	Google/Bing/W3C or platform specification	Eligibility, crawling, markup, policy and measurement definitions	Binding for the named platform until updated
2	Direct first-party evidence	Search Console, analytics, server logs, CRM, user research	What actually happened on this site	Highest site-specific evidence when measurement is valid
3	Controlled test	Randomized page groups or credible matched controls	Whether a change likely caused an effect	High when design, power and assumptions hold
4	Independent replicated research	Peer-reviewed research or several large studies	Human behavior and general mechanisms	Generalizable with context limits
5	Industry observational evidence	Ahrefs, Semrush, SISTRIX datasets and case studies	Opportunity discovery and directional heuristics	Useful, but not proof of causation or Google internals
6	Expert judgment	Experienced practitioner reasoning	Hypotheses and decisions where data is incomplete	Must be labeled and tested
7	Tool score or AI output	Proprietary proxy or model-generated synthesis	Triage and drafting only	Never treated as truth without validation

The Search Model: Crawl → Render → Index → Retrieve → Select → Click → Satisfy → Convert
A page can fail at eight distinct stages:

Crawl: the engine cannot or does not fetch the URL.
Render: important content or links are absent from the rendered result.
Index: the page is excluded, duplicated, low-value or canonicalized elsewhere.
Retrieve: the indexed page is not considered relevant to the query.
Select: competing results are judged more useful, authoritative or appropriate.
Click: the title/snippet does not earn attention or trust.
Satisfy: the landing page does not complete the job.
Convert: the user is satisfied but the business path is weak, mistimed or broken.
Diagnostic law: never prescribe a later-stage fix for an earlier-stage failure. Rewriting an H1 cannot fix an accidental noindex. Building links cannot fix a page that answers the wrong intent. More traffic cannot fix a broken enrollment flow.

Google describes Search as crawling, indexing and serving results, while this manual extends the model through observable user and business outcomes.


Measurement Order
Measure the system in dependency order. Search Console is the source of truth for Google Search exposure and clicks; analytics/CRM is the source of truth for behavior and business outcomes. Join them at the landing-page and date grain when query-level conversion data is unavailable.

Measurement decision order


Order

Decision question

Primary evidence

Correct comparison

Decision rule
1	Can Google access and index the intended URL?	Index status, rendered HTML, canonical selected	Declared state versus Google-observed state	Fix eligibility before evaluating rankings.
2	Does Google consider the page relevant enough to show?	Impressions by query cluster	Same page/query cluster versus prior comparable period	If impressions are absent, check intent, eligibility, internal links and authority.
3	Does the result earn the click?	Normalized CTR	Same query × device × country × appearance × similar position	Change title/snippet only when promise or differentiation is weak.
4	Does the page satisfy the visit?	Qualified conversion, task completion, return-to-SERP proxy if available	Prior version or matched control pages	Fix answer, usability, trust or offer before chasing more traffic.
5	Did the SEO change cause improvement?	Difference-in-differences or randomized page-group test	Treatment change minus matched-control change	Ship broadly only when effect is practically valuable and uncertainty acceptable.
6	Did SEO create business value?	Incremental qualified conversions × contribution value	Forecast/baseline and cost of work	Scale only when expected value exceeds total cost and risk.

The H1 Law
What an H1 is
The H1 is the main semantic and visual heading of the page’s primary content. W3C guidance treats rank 1 as the highest heading level and recommends logical nesting. Google can use the first prominent H1, other prominent text, the HTML title and anchor text when generating a search-result title. Therefore the main heading must be unmistakable.

Hard rule
Use one visually dominant main heading for the primary page content. HTML permits more than one H1, but this house law removes ambiguity for users, accessibility tools, editors and Google’s title selection. Other H1 elements are permitted only inside genuinely independent embedded documents/components and require review.

What it should say
Use the shortest natural wording that identifies the page’s exact job:

Service: [Service] for [audience/location] — [material differentiator]
Guide: How to [achieve outcome] [important constraint]
Comparison: [Option A] vs. [Option B]: Which Fits [decision context]?
Category: [Category] for [use case or audience]
Tool: [Task] Calculator/Checker — [output produced]
Definition: What Is [Concept]? [Useful consequence when necessary]
Local page: [Service] in [Real service area]
Product: [Product name/type] — [meaningful variant or use]
Do not force every slot. Omit any phrase that does not change meaning.

House length rule
Default to 12 words or fewer. This is not a Google ranking limit. A longer H1 is allowed when removing words makes the task, audience, location or safety meaning ambiguous. Never shorten by deleting essential qualifiers.

Forbidden H1 patterns
vague slogans such as “A Better Way Forward”
keyword lists separated by pipes or commas
unsupported superlatives such as “#1,” “best” or “most trusted”
exact duplication across materially different pages
a promise the page does not fulfill
headings written for a crawler but unnatural to a customer
multiple equally prominent headings competing for main-title status
Five-second prediction test
Show only the H1 to at least five people who resemble the audience. Ask: “What do you expect this page to help you do?” Pass when at least 80% describe the intended task without coaching. Treat this as directional user evidence, not statistical proof.


How to Score an H1 Mathematically
Score each criterion from 0.00 to 1.00, multiply by its weight and sum to 100.

H1 Score = 30C + 20S + 15D + 15V + 10F + 10A

Where:

C = intent clarity
S = specificity
D = audience or differentiation
V = value/outcome clarity
F = processing fluency
A = alignment with the title and landing-page content
Apply penalties after the weighted score:

−20 misleading/clickbait promise
−20 ambiguous page type or task
−15 unsupported superlative
−15 obvious keyword stuffing
−10 duplicate H1 used for a different intent
automatic failure for a factually false or noncompliant claim
Publish gate: score at least 80, no automatic failure, and intent clarity at least 0.80. A lower-scoring version may still be tested if the hypothesis is documented.

This score is an editorial decision model—not a ranking score.

H1 decision-score weights

In…cl…
Va…ou…
Ti…al…
criterion
0
7.5
15
22.5
30
weight
30
20
15
15
10
10
H1 scoring rubric


Criterion

Weight

Measurement question
Intent clarity	30	Can a cold reader correctly identify the page task or subject from the H1 alone?
Specificity	20	Does it name the object, decision, audience, location or constraint that changes meaning?
Audience or differentiator	15	Does it distinguish this page from generic alternatives without adding clutter?
Value or outcome	15	Does it state the useful result when the result is material to intent?
Processing fluency	10	Is it natural, concrete, brief and understandable on first reading?
Title alignment	10	Would the title link and H1 feel like the same promise after the click?

Who to Benchmark the H1 Against
Use four comparisons, in this order:

The user job: the wording must accurately represent the task even if no competitor uses it.
Your own successful pages: compare task comprehension, conversion and normalized CTR.
The median of the top five comparable organic results: exclude ads; separate page types. A tool is not a fair wording comparator for a guide, and a marketplace is not a fair business comparator for a local service page.
The best differentiated result: identify what it communicates that the median misses.
Create a comparison grid with rows for intent, page type, audience, promise, specificity, evidence and CTA. Do not award points for copying a phrase. The goal is parity on required meaning plus superiority on one valuable dimension.

Pairwise decision
Blind the brand names and present two H1s at a time to reviewers. Ask:

Which page would you choose for the stated task?
What do you expect each page to contain?
Which sounds more credible?
Which is more specific without becoming harder to read?
The candidate wins only when it is preferred and the predicted contents match the actual page.


How to Determine Whether a New H1 Is Better
Use four gates:

Truth gate: all claims are supported and the page fulfills the promise.
Comprehension gate: the H1 score and five-second prediction improve or remain safely above the standard.
Search gate: impressions, normalized CTR and relevant query coverage do not materially worsen after recrawl.
Business gate: qualified conversion rate or contribution value improves or remains within an approved guardrail.
For one page, a before/after result is evidence of association, not clean causation. Compare the same query cluster, device, country and search appearance; control for average position and seasonality. Use at least one full recrawl and normally 28 comparable days before and after. Extend the window for low-volume or seasonal pages.

For a template change across many similar pages, split statistically similar pages into treatment and control groups. SearchPilot’s method splits pages—not users—then compares observed traffic with a forecast/control. The house fallback is difference-in-differences:

Estimated effect = (Treatment after − Treatment before) − (Control after − Control before)

The control pages must have similar pre-change trends, template, demand, market and seasonality. If those assumptions fail, label the result inconclusive.


Page Element Standards at a Glance
Each element below has a different job. “Put the keyword everywhere” is prohibited because it destroys the distinction between identification, persuasion, structure, evidence and navigation.

Page-element operating standards


Order

Element

House law

How to measure

Benchmark against
1	URL	Short, stable, readable path that names the durable subject; lowercase words separated by hyphens.	No unnecessary parameters; one canonical; no redirect; understandable out of context.	Own architecture and comparable winning URLs—not their exact wording.
2	Title element	Unique promise of the page; main topic early; differentiator when useful; brand usually last.	Title accuracy, uniqueness, query-level normalized CTR and Google rewrite rate.	Same query, country, device and result type; median of the top five comparable organic results.
3	Meta description	One or two natural sentences that summarize the answer/value and give a truthful reason to click.	Snippet use when observable, query-level normalized CTR and post-click satisfaction.	SERP snippets competing for the same intent; never benchmark length alone.
4	H1	One visually dominant main heading that names the page’s exact task, subject or decision.	100-point H1 score, five-second task prediction, title alignment and post-change performance.	Top five comparable results plus your own best-converting pages.
5	Opening	Confirm the visitor is in the right place and provide the direct answer, scope or next action immediately.	Answer present in first 1–3 sentences; task success; scroll/engagement interpreted with conversion.	User need and best comparable page—not word count.
6	H2/H3 structure	Headings form a logical table of contents and accurately predict the section below.	No skipped conceptual levels; each heading passes prediction test; coverage matches intent map.	Common subquestions across top results, customer questions and required first-party knowledge.
7	Body	Complete the user’s job with original evidence, clear reasoning and no filler.	Intent coverage, unique-value score, claim support, task completion and conversion.	Composite of SERP winners, primary sources and customer evidence.
8	Internal links	Link where the next page meaningfully helps; anchor text predicts the destination.	Priority pages not orphaned; contextual links in/out; click use; crawl path.	Desired architecture and relevant hub/cluster relationships.
9	Images/media	Every asset must explain, prove, demonstrate or orient; decorative images need empty alt text.	Relevance, nearby explanatory text, descriptive alt where informative, load impact.	User task and accessibility standard—not image count.
10	Trust block	Make responsibility, expertise, sources, review status and business identity visible where risk requires it.	Named author/reviewer, credentials, claim ledger, dates, policies, contact/ownership proof.	Risk level and credible leaders in the field.
11	CTA	The next action must match the visitor’s stage and state exactly what happens next.	CTA comprehension, start rate, completion rate, qualified conversion and downstream value.	Your previous version and matched traffic—not generic conversion benchmarks.
12	Structured data	Use only a Google-supported type that truthfully describes visible main content.	Required properties valid; URL Inspection; enhancement errors; actual search appearance.	Google feature requirements, never competitor markup volume.

Title Element and Search-Result Title Law
Hard facts
Google automatically generates the visible title link from multiple sources: the HTML <title>, the main visual heading, H1 elements, other prominent text and anchor text. It may rewrite the displayed title. There is no universal character count that guarantees display because available width varies by device and query.

House formula
[Primary topic or outcome] — [specific differentiator] | [Brand]

Alternative for high-intent pages: [Action/service] for [audience/location] | [Brand]

Use the main topic early when natural. Put the brand last unless the search is brand-led. Make every title unique.

Title decision score
query and intent match: 30
truthful useful promise: 25
differentiation from competing results: 15
specificity: 10
fluency and scanability: 10
brand/identity clarity: 5
consistency with H1 and page: 5
Pass at 80. Automatic fail for deception, unsupported claims or mismatch with the destination.

Measurement
Measure normalized CTR, not raw CTR. Raw CTR is confounded by query, position, device, country and SERP appearance.

For each comparable bucket:

Normalized CTR = observed CTR ÷ expected CTR for that bucket

Build expected CTR from your own historical data, not a generic internet curve. Aggregate only comparable buckets. Also monitor Google title rewrite patterns by sampling important queries.

A higher CTR is not a win when qualified conversions, satisfaction or brand trust decline.


Meta Description and Snippet Law
Google primarily creates snippets from page content and may use a different passage for different queries. The meta description is a candidate summary, not guaranteed display text.

House rule
Write one or two natural sentences containing:

what the page provides,
the most decision-relevant specifics,
a truthful reason to choose or continue.
Example structure: [Direct description of solution or answer]. [Specific proof, scope, price/process detail or next step].

Do not repeat the title, stuff variants, use empty hype or promise unavailable information.

Measurement
Evaluate by query-level normalized CTR and downstream qualified conversion. If Google repeatedly selects body text instead, inspect whether the meta description is generic, mismatched to the query or less useful than the on-page passage. Do not judge by pixel length alone.


Opening and Answer-First Law
The first visible content must confirm the information scent established by the result title, snippet and H1. Information-foraging theory describes “scent” as cues people use to estimate the value and cost of continuing. Processing-fluency research shows that easier processing can influence confidence and preference; clarity must therefore be used to make truth easier to evaluate, not to disguise weak evidence.

House structure
Within the first 1–3 sentences:

answer or define the main question,
state the scope or key condition,
show the next useful path.
For transactional pages, replace the abstract answer with the product/service fit, core proof and primary action.

Test
Show the above-the-fold content without navigation. Ask users:

What is this page for?
Is it relevant to your situation?
What would you do next?
What important condition is still unclear?
Pass when 80% correctly identify the purpose and next action. Diagnose hesitation language; do not merely shorten the copy.


H2–H6 Structure Law
Headings create the document outline. W3C guidance says heading ranks communicate hierarchy; descriptive headings help people predict sections, especially users who read slowly or have limited short-term memory.

House rules
H1 = page-level subject.
H2 = major questions, stages or decision dimensions.
H3 = subdivisions of the preceding H2.
Do not skip a level for styling. Use CSS for appearance.
Every heading must accurately predict the content immediately below it.
Prefer concrete task language: “How binder payments work” beats “Understanding the process.”
Headings are not required to contain exact-match keywords.
A heading with no substantive content below it is prohibited.
Coverage method
Build a subtopic matrix from:

customer questions,
sales/support objections,
concepts recurring across the top five comparable results,
primary-source requirements,
first-party expertise competitors lack.
A subtopic enters the page only if it helps complete the intent. Frequency among competitors is evidence of expected coverage, not an instruction to copy.


Body Content, Logic and Fact Law
Required reasoning chain
For every material recommendation:

Claim: what is true or should be done.
Evidence: the observation, source or rule supporting it.
Reasoning: why the evidence supports the claim.
Boundary: when it may not apply.
Action: what the reader should do.
Verification: how the reader can confirm success.
Claim ledger
Maintain one row per consequential factual claim:

claim text
source
source type
publication/update date
direct or inferred
confidence level
reviewer
next review trigger
Primary sources control technical, medical, legal, financial and regulatory facts. A secondary source may explain but cannot replace an available authoritative source.

Content quality gate
Score the page with the weighted model below. Publish at 80/100 or higher and meet every component gate. A 95-point page with unsupported high-stakes claims still fails.

Page quality scoring model


Criterion

Weight

Minimum gate

Review question
Intent satisfaction	25	Must score at least 18/25	Does the page complete the exact job implied by the query and SERP?
Original value	20	Must score at least 12/20	What can the user get here that is not a paraphrase of existing results?
Evidence and accuracy	15	Must score at least 10/15	Are material claims supported, current and reviewed at the risk-appropriate level?
Coverage and reasoning	15	Must score at least 10/15	Are required subquestions answered with a coherent decision path?
Clarity and usability	10	Must score at least 7/10	Can a scanning reader predict, find and understand the answer quickly?
Trust and accountability	10	Must score at least 7/10	Are author, reviewer, organization, sources and policies visible where needed?
Business path	5	Must score at least 3/5	Is the next action appropriate and measurable?

Competitor Comparison Mathematics
Never compare against one favorite competitor. Use a composite benchmark.

Benchmark set
For the exact market/device/query cluster:

top five comparable organic results,
your best-performing relevant page,
one credible non-ranking subject authority when the SERP lacks depth,
direct customer evidence.
Criterion score
Score every page from 0–5 on intent fit, evidence, original value, completeness, clarity, trust, UX and next-step quality.

For criterion (j):

Advantage_j = Your score_j − median(top-five score_j)

Overall comparative advantage:

Weighted advantage = Σ(weight_j × Advantage_j) ÷ Σ(weights)

A new page should:

meet all table-stakes criteria,
beat the median on overall weighted advantage,
provide at least one material advantage of +2 or more on a high-weight criterion,
avoid any −2 deficit on intent, truth or usability.
This model determines editorial superiority; it does not predict an exact Google position.


Keyword and Intent Law
A keyword is evidence of language and demand, not a page specification.

Research sequence
Start with customer problems, products, services and decision stages.
Add Search Console queries, site search, sales calls, support tickets, paid-search terms and competitor rankings.
Classify intent: learn/know, compare/evaluate, do/buy, navigate, local/visit.
Inspect the live top 10 for page type, format, angle, freshness, SERP features and authority.
Cluster terms when Google returns substantially similar URLs.
Map each cluster to one existing or planned primary URL.
SERP-overlap mathematics
For two keywords A and B, capture the top 10 organic URLs.

Jaccard similarity = |URLs_A ∩ URLs_B| ÷ |URLs_A ∪ URLs_B|

House thresholds:

≥ 0.50: strong evidence for one page
0.30–0.49: manual intent review
< 0.30: normally separate pages
These are house thresholds, not Google rules. Override them when result types differ materially, the query has mixed intent or a regulated distinction requires separate treatment.

Semrush and Ahrefs both cluster using search intent and overlapping search results; the formula makes that logic auditable.


Opportunity Value and Priority Mathematics
Expected monthly value
For a proposed page or improvement:

Expected value = Eligible impressions × modeled CTR × qualified conversion rate × contribution value per conversion × confidence

Use:

eligible impressions from current Search Console exposure or defensible demand estimates,
CTR from your own comparable query/position/device data,
conversion rate from comparable landing pages,
contribution value rather than gross vanity revenue,
confidence from 0.25 to 1.00 based on evidence quality.
Net opportunity
Net expected value = Expected value − monthlyized production, engineering, review and outreach cost

Priority score
Score each 0–10:

Priority = 3.5B + 2.0O + 1.5T + 1.5F + 1.0A + 0.5U

Where B=business value, O=current opportunity, T=traffic potential, F=feasibility, A=authority gap opportunity and U=urgency.

Use the score to order work; use net expected value to fund it. A high score with negative economics does not ship.

SEO opportunity-score weights

Bu…va…
Fe…il…
Ur…ncy
criterion
0
9
18
27
36
weight
35
20
15
15
10
5

Technical SEO Laws
Access
A priority page must return HTTP 200 to normal users and permitted crawlers.
Main content and crawlable links must exist in rendered HTML.
Required CSS, JavaScript and images must not be blocked when they are needed to understand the page.
robots.txt versus noindex
robots.txt controls crawler access; it is not a reliable removal mechanism.
A noindex directive controls indexing, but Google must be allowed to crawl the URL to see it.
Private or sensitive content requires authentication, not robots.txt.
Canonicalization
Every unique indexable page declares a coherent canonical, normally itself.
Permanent redirects are strong canonical signals for moved URLs.
rel=canonical is a strong signal for duplicate/near-duplicate URLs.
Sitemap inclusion is a weaker canonical signal and must agree with redirects and canonical tags.
Canonical targets must be indexable 200 URLs with equivalent content.
JavaScript must not change the canonical to a conflicting URL.
Status codes
200 = valid content.
301/308 = permanent move to the best equivalent destination.
302/307 = temporary move.
404/410 = removed with no replacement.
A “not found” message returning 200 is a soft 404 failure.
Server errors affecting priority templates are incidents, not backlog items.
Sitemap
Include canonical, indexable URLs worth discovering. Remove redirects, errors, duplicates, noindex pages and parameter noise. A sitemap helps discovery; it does not force indexing.

Crawlable links
Use real <a href> links. Anchor text must describe the destination in context. Empty links, JavaScript-only navigation without crawlable hrefs and vague repeated anchors weaken discovery and comprehension.


Core Web Vitals Law
Use field data as the outcome and lab data as diagnosis. The official “good” standard is assessed at the 75th percentile, with mobile and desktop considered separately.

A page/template passes only when all applicable Core Web Vitals meet the good threshold. A green Lighthouse score is not a substitute for field performance, and good Core Web Vitals do not guarantee rankings.

Prioritize fixes by affected qualified traffic and template reach:

server response and critical content discovery,
LCP resource priority and image sizing,
render-blocking work,
long main-thread tasks and interaction handlers,
reserved dimensions for images/embeds/ads,
third-party scripts.
Measure before and after with the same field population. Do not declare a win from a single lab run.

Core Web Vitals thresholds


Metric

Good

Needs improvement

Poor

Evaluation population

Meaning
CLS	≤ 0.10	> 0.10 and ≤ 0.25	> 0.25	75th percentile of page loads, mobile and desktop assessed separately	Unexpected visual instability
INP	≤ 200 ms	> 200 and ≤ 500 ms	> 500 ms	75th percentile of page loads with interactions	Responsiveness across user interactions
LCP	≤ 2.5 seconds	> 2.5 and ≤ 4.0 seconds	> 4.0 seconds	75th percentile of page loads, mobile and desktop assessed separately	Loading performance of the largest visible content element

Structured Data Law
Structured data may make a page eligible for supported rich results; it does not guarantee display or higher ranking.

Required deployment process
Choose a type listed in Google’s supported search gallery.
Confirm it describes the page’s main visible content.
Add all required properties and useful recommended properties that are true.
Prefer JSON-LD unless the implementation has a reason otherwise.
Validate with Rich Results Test.
inspect the deployed URL with URL Inspection.
release to a small template sample.
monitor enhancement reports and actual search appearances.
expand only after accuracy is verified.
Never mark up hidden, fabricated, irrelevant, stale or misleading information. Never add FAQ/review/organization markup merely because a competitor has it.


Internal Linking and Information-Scent Law
Internal links have three jobs:

make pages discoverable,
explain relationships and destination meaning,
route attention and internal authority toward important pages.
House standard
Every priority page must have:

at least one crawlable path from a stable navigation, hub or relevant page,
contextual links from pages that genuinely set up the destination,
links onward to the next useful decision or action,
no important internal link pointing through an avoidable redirect.
Anchor text should let a reader predict the destination. “Compare Medicare Advantage and Medigap” has stronger scent than “learn more.” Do not manufacture exact-match anchors repeatedly; vary naturally with context.

Measure orphan rate, depth, inlinks from relevant pages, anchor clarity, crawl discovery and actual link use. Do not optimize toward a universal link-count quota.


External Authority and Link Law
Google uses links for discovery and relevance, while its spam policies prohibit links created primarily to manipulate rankings.

Allowed order of operations
reclaim legitimate lost links,
repair links to broken/redirected assets,
convert accurate unlinked brand/data mentions,
close relevant competitor link gaps,
create citation-worthy data, tools, maps, calculators, templates and expert resources,
pitch journalists and industry publishers with a real story or resource,
strengthen licenses, associations, partner evidence and real-world reputation.
Link quality score
Score 0–5 for:

topical relevance,
editorial independence,
source reputation,
likely human use/referral value,
destination fit,
placement context.
Reject when manipulation risk, payment concealment, irrelevant scale or network pattern is present. Relevant referring domains and qualified mentions matter more than raw backlink count. Domain-rating metrics are filters, not truth.


Trust, E-E-A-T and High-Stakes Content Law
E-E-A-T means experience, expertise, authoritativeness and trustworthiness. It is a quality framework used by raters, not a single ranking factor that can be “added.”

Visible trust requirements
For pages that can affect health, money, safety, legal status or major life decisions:

named responsible author,
qualifications relevant to the specific claim,
expert reviewer where the author lacks required credentials,
primary sources near material claims,
publication and material-update dates,
explanation of method/data where results are calculated,
correction and editorial process,
clear organization ownership and contact information,
disclosures for compensation, conflicts or affiliate relationships,
safe boundary language describing when professional help is required.
Trust is evaluated per claim and purpose. A licensed insurance professional may review enrollment guidance but is not thereby qualified to make medical claims.


Psychology Law: Clarity Without Manipulation
Use psychology to reduce uncertainty and cognitive effort.

Information scent
The title, snippet, H1, imagery, labels and anchors must consistently predict the destination and outcome. Strong scent reduces the perceived cost of continuing.

Processing fluency
Use concrete familiar language, readable typography, logical grouping and predictable interaction. Fluency can increase perceived truth or preference, so every fluent claim must also be factually supported.

Recognition over recall
Display relevant options, definitions, progress and prior answers; do not force users to remember information across steps.

Progressive disclosure
Show the decision-critical information first and reveal secondary complexity when requested. Do not hide exclusions, price, eligibility or risk merely because they reduce conversion.

Choice architecture
Group options by meaningful decision criteria. Use recommended choices only when the recommendation method is transparent and the user can override it.

Social proof
Use real, attributable, current evidence. Fabricated scarcity, fake reviews, cherry-picked statistics and unsupported “most popular” labels are prohibited.

The behavioral objective is not “more clicks.” It is faster correct prediction, lower avoidable effort and better informed completion.


Statistical Testing and Decision Law
Pre-register the decision
Before release, record:

hypothesis,
affected URLs,
primary metric,
guardrails,
baseline and control,
minimum worthwhile effect,
observation window,
confounders,
ship/revert/inconclusive rule.
CTR uncertainty
CTR is a proportion: clicks/impressions. Use a Wilson interval rather than treating the observed percentage as exact.

For (x) clicks from (n) impressions, (hat p=x/n), (z=1.96) for 95% confidence:

Center = (p̂ + z²/(2n)) ÷ (1 + z²/n)

Half-width = z × √(p̂(1−p̂)/n + z²/(4n²)) ÷ (1 + z²/n)

Interval = center ± half-width.

Do not impose a universal sample minimum. Keep collecting until the interval is narrow enough to distinguish the minimum worthwhile effect. For very sparse events, use an exact method or qualified analyst.

Practical significance
A statistically detectable change that adds negligible business value is not a win.

Incremental value = incremental qualified conversions × contribution value − change cost

Multiple changes
If title, H1, content, layout and CTA all change at once, the package can be evaluated but individual effects cannot be assigned. Use isolated tests when learning the component effect matters.


Complete Page Production SOP
1. Define
Record audience, job, intent, page type, conversion, risk class and owner.

2. Research
Collect first-party customer language, Search Console data, live SERP evidence, primary sources, competitor gaps and internal expertise.

3. Cluster and map
Use intent plus SERP overlap. Select one primary URL and resolve cannibalization before drafting.

4. Brief
Specify title hypothesis, H1, direct answer, section outline, unique-value asset, claim ledger, internal links, schema, CTA and measurement plan.

5. Draft
Write the direct answer first. Build the evidence/reasoning chain. Remove paragraphs that do not advance the job.

6. Expert and factual review
Check every material claim, calculation, comparison, credential and compliance boundary.

7. UX/accessibility review
Test headings, labels, keyboard use, mobile rendering, contrast, reading order, forms and error states.

8. Technical QA
Verify 200 status, indexability, canonical, rendered content, title, description, heading hierarchy, crawlable links, sitemap logic, structured data and performance.

9. Conversion QA
Confirm the CTA matches intent, tracking fires once, lead quality is measurable and the next step is accurately described.

10. Publish and request discovery
Update internal links and sitemap; use URL Inspection for critical launches when appropriate.

11. Observe
Confirm crawl/index state, then monitor query coverage, normalized CTR, qualified conversion and guardrails.

12. Decide
Keep, expand, revise, consolidate, revert or declare inconclusive. Save the receipt.


Existing Content Decision Law
Assign exactly one primary action per URL:

Keep: meets intent, quality and business thresholds.
Optimize: sound page with a specific measurable weakness.
Refresh: evidence, examples, product facts or SERP expectations changed.
Expand: missing material subquestions prevent job completion.
Consolidate: two or more URLs satisfy the same intent and dilute signals.
Reposition: page has value but targets the wrong intent or stage.
Redirect: removed page has a clearly equivalent successor.
Retire with 404/410: no demand, links, conversions, strategic purpose or equivalent destination.
Noindex: useful to users but intentionally excluded from search; use sparingly and keep crawlable until Google sees the directive.
Do not redirect unrelated dead pages to the home page. Do not refresh solely by changing the date. Do not add words when the missing value is a tool, proof, comparison or clearer answer.


Local SEO Law
Google describes local ranking mainly through relevance, distance and prominence.

Relevance: accurate category, services, content and complete business information.
Distance: physical proximity or the location Google infers; it cannot be manipulated away.
Prominence: real-world recognition, reviews, links and broader web presence.
Required actions
Verify the Business Profile; use accurate primary/secondary categories; maintain hours, service area, phone, website and attributes; publish genuine service/location pages only where operations and unique local value exist; request reviews without incentives or gating; respond to reviews; maintain consistent core business identity.

Measurement
Track profile actions, calls, qualified leads, direction requests, local organic landing pages and a fixed grid of commercially important queries. Segment by location. A ranking report from one point does not represent an entire service area.


AI Search Law
For Google’s generative search features, the foundational SEO system still applies. Google states that no special schema, llms.txt, artificial “AI text file,” forced chunking or inauthentic mention campaign is required.

House actions
keep valuable content indexable and snippet-eligible,
answer the main question explicitly,
cover genuine subquestions generated by the decision,
use original evidence, expert interpretation and clear entities,
make sources and methods visible,
maintain accurate product feeds and Business Profiles when relevant,
monitor the dedicated generative-AI Search Console reporting when available,
track referral traffic and citations from other answer systems separately.
Do not create duplicate “GEO pages.” Improve the canonical page unless a genuinely different user task exists.


Traffic-Drop Diagnosis
Use 16 months when available and compare equivalent periods.

Clicks down, impressions down: demand decline, index loss, ranking loss, migration, competitor/feature change or algorithm update.
Clicks down, impressions stable: CTR, title/snippet, SERP features, position mix or intent drift.
Impressions up, clicks flat: new low-position/query exposure may dilute aggregate CTR; segment before acting.
Position down site-wide: check technical incidents, major releases, manual actions, spam/security issues and broad quality.
One template down: inspect rendering, canonicalization, status, internal links, structured data and template value.
Rankings stable, conversions down: likely offer, UX, tracking, traffic-mix or operations problem.
Small daily movement: normally observe; do not rewrite a winner reactively.
Average position is an aggregate, not a literal fixed rank. Diagnose by page, query, device, country and appearance.


Reporting and Receipts Law
Every SEO number must include:

source,
date range,
comparison range,
market/device/search type,
numerator and denominator,
exclusions,
whether it is observed, estimated or modeled,
confidence/uncertainty,
business interpretation.
A ranking report without impressions, clicks and conversions is incomplete. A conversion report without landing pages and query intent cannot diagnose SEO. A tool estimate must be labeled as an estimate.

Every recommendation includes:

affected URLs,
evidence,
proposed change,
expected mechanism,
effort,
risk,
owner,
success metric,
verification method,
rollback condition.

First 90 Days
The original execution sequence remains: establish truth, fix eligibility, build the demand map, improve existing opportunities, fill high-value gaps, earn authority and operate the measurement loop.

90-day execution plan


Order

Window

Objective

Actions

Exit gate

Owner
1	Days 1–7	Establish truth	Connect Search Console, GA4 conversions, Bing Webmaster Tools; inventory URLs; crawl site; save baseline.	Every organic landing page can be tied to clicks, conversions and index status.	SEO lead + analytics
2	Days 8–21	Remove technical blockers	Fix accidental blocks/noindex, 5xx/soft 404s, canonical conflicts, redirect chains, broken internal links, orphan pages and sitemap errors.	Priority pages return 200, are crawlable, canonical and discoverable.	Developer + SEO
3	Days 15–30	Build the demand map	Collect seeds, Search Console queries and competitor keywords; cluster by intent; inspect live SERPs; map one cluster to one URL.	Approved keyword-to-URL map with no avoidable cannibalization.	SEO strategist
4	Days 22–45	Win existing opportunities	Rewrite weak titles, satisfy missing intent, add evidence and expert review, improve internal links, consolidate overlap and refresh declining pages.	Top 20 opportunity pages pass the page QA gate.	Content + SEO
5	Days 31–70	Fill high-value gaps	Create money pages and supporting clusters from approved briefs; add appropriate structured data; publish only after QA.	Each new page has demand, intent fit, unique value, conversion path and internal links.	Subject expert + editor
6	Days 45–90	Earn authority	Reclaim lost links, convert unlinked mentions, produce data/tools/assets worth citing, pitch relevant publishers and strengthen business/entity consistency.	Relevant referring domains and qualified brand mentions trend upward.	PR/outreach
7	Every week	Measure and learn	Review clicks, conversions, indexation, winners/losers and shipped changes; annotate releases; choose next work by score.	Every shipped change has a baseline, observation window and next decision.	SEO lead

Operating Cadence
The cadence protects the system from both neglect and overreaction.

SEO review cadence


Order

Cadence

Review

Decision
1	Weekly	Indexing incidents, crawl failures, organic conversions, page/query winners and losers, changes shipped	Fix incidents; re-rank the backlog; do not react to harmless daily position noise.
2	Monthly	Nonbrand clicks, qualified organic conversions, CTR opportunity, topic coverage, new/lost links, local visibility	Scale winners, refresh near-winners, consolidate overlap, stop low-value production.
3	Quarterly	Full technical crawl, content decay, competitor gaps, authority gap, template performance, business contribution	Reset topic priorities, retire weak pages, fund linkable assets and template fixes.

The Secret Formula Is Not the Operating Problem
Google does not publish the coefficients, thresholds, training data, reranking logic or query-specific mixtures used by its ranking systems. It does publish important system families: language understanding, neural matching, link analysis including evolved PageRank, freshness systems and original-content systems. The exact combination varies by query and changes over time.

E-E-A-T is not a single numeric ranking factor. Google says its systems use a mixture of signals that can align with experience, expertise, authoritativeness and trust; quality-rater judgments evaluate whether system changes produce good results, but raters do not directly rank pages. Trust is the central practical constraint, especially for YMYL topics.

Therefore:

Never claim to know Google's score.
Model the observable stages and estimate effects from your own data.
Treat public platform studies as priors, not laws.
Require a reproducible experiment before converting a correlation into a house rule.
Keep engine, query class, geography, device and date inside every conclusion.

Evidence Language Must Match What Can Be Known
The manual permits five verbs:

Requires: an official eligibility or policy rule.
Observed: a direct measurement with a named population and date.
Estimated: a statistical result with uncertainty and assumptions.
Hypothesized: a plausible causal explanation awaiting a test.
Unknown: an internal mechanism or weight that the evidence cannot identify.
“Reddit ranks quickly” is an observation only after the queries, dates, locations, post age and comparison set are recorded. “Reddit has the highest authority” is a causal/general claim and requires substantially more evidence.

What is known, measurable, inferable or secret


Layer

State

How evaluated

Rule
External result behavior	Sampled	Repeated SERP and answer-engine observations	Treat as conditional empirical evidence
Internal weights and thresholds	Secret	Not directly observable	Never state as a known engine formula
Owned performance	Measured	Search Console, analytics, logs and CRM	Treat as observed outcome
Published requirements	Known	Direct documentation and technical inspection	Treat as an eligibility rule
Signal contribution	Estimated	Controlled tests, matched controls and statistical models	Treat as an effect estimate with uncertainty

Model 1 — The Full SEO/AEO Probability Chain
For query or prompt (q), content asset (u), engine (e), audience (a) and time (t):

[ P(V)=P(E),P(R\mid E),P(S\mid R),P(G\mid S),P(C\mid G),P(K\mid C) imes M ]

Where:

(E): technically eligible and accessible;
(R): retrieved for the query or fan-out subquery;
(S): selected for a ranking, answer context or source set;
(G): visibly shown, cited or mentioned;
(C): clicked or otherwise engaged;
(K): qualified conversion;
(M): contribution margin or assigned conversion value.
Expected net value:

[ ENV=N_q imes P(V)-C_{create}-C_{maintain}-E[L] ]

(N_q) is expected eligible demand; (E[L]) is expected legal, factual, platform and reputation loss.

Decision logic
If eligibility is zero, repair the gate.
If retrieval is low, improve intent and topical fit.
If retrieval is high but citation is low, improve evidence, extractability and source selection.
If citation is high but referral is low, decide whether assisted influence still has value.
If referral is high but conversion is low, fix offer, trust or journey—not “SEO.”
Fund the asset only when expected value exceeds creation, maintenance and risk cost.
The product of stage probabilities is deliberately unforgiving: a near-zero stage cannot be hidden by a strong vanity metric elsewhere.


Nine Algorithms Govern the System
The playbook does not use one universal “SEO score.” It uses separate algorithms because technical eligibility, intent, authority, citation, truth and economics are different problems. Combining them too early destroys diagnostic value.

Algorithm registry


Algorithm

Inputs

Output

Minimum evidence
AEO citation model	Repeated prompt-engine runs	Citation probability	Repeated observations
Authority-vector scorer	Page and source evidence by dimension	Query-specific authority profile	Feature rubric plus calibration data
Change decision	Baseline, control, post-period, guardrails	Keep / revise / reverse / continue	Predeclared test window
Content integrity model	Claim ledger, sources, review dates	Evidence-integrity score	Claim-level audit
Eligibility gate	URL, response, robots, canonical, rendered content	Eligible / blocked	Direct inspection
Intent classifier	Query set, live results, user job	Intent distribution	SERP sample plus human review
Opportunity model	Demand, stage probabilities, value and cost	Expected net value	Observed rates or bounded priors
Page win model	Page features and comparable results	Estimated win probability	Historical labeled pages
Platform effect test	Matched topics across owned, Reddit and LinkedIn	Effect estimate and posterior confidence	Staggered controlled publication

Model 2 — Authority Is a Query-Dependent Vector
A domain-authority number from a vendor is a useful comparative proxy, not Google's authority variable. Represent authority as:

[ \mathbf{A}_{u,q,e,t}= [T,F,X,L,N,R,P] ]

(T): topical fit;
(F): independent factual corroboration;
(X): first-hand experience;
(L): relevant link and citation graph;
(N): entity identity and consistency;
(R): recency when freshness is useful;
(P): platform and context fit.
For higher-risk topics, add visible trust and factual controls (Z).

[ AuthorityScore_{q}=100\sum_j w_{j,q}a_j ]

Each feature (a_j) is scored from 0 to 1. Weights (w_{j,q}) must total 1 and change by query class. The values below are initial house priors, not engine weights. Replace them with coefficients calibrated from your own labeled outcomes.

A geometric version is preferable when a weak dimension should act as a bottleneck:

[ A_g=100\prod_j (\epsilon+a_j)^{w_{j,q}} ]

Use (epsilon=0.01) only to prevent a mathematical zero. Do not use it to excuse absent trust.

Illustrative authority priors by query class

T…f…
E…c…
T…f…
dimension
0
7.5
15
22.5
30
weight

General information

YMYL

Community opinion

Model 3 — E-E-A-T Becomes a Quality-Control Proxy, Not a Fake Google Score
Score each dimension from 0 to 1 using auditable evidence.

[ EEAT_{general}=100(E_x^{0.20}E_p^{0.20}A^{0.20}T^{0.40}) ]

[ EEAT_{YMYL}=100(E_x^{0.15}E_p^{0.20}A^{0.20}T^{0.45}) ]

(E_x), experience: first-hand tests, photos, records, examples, limitations and outcomes.
(E_p), expertise: relevant credentials, demonstrated competence, correct terminology and maintained knowledge.
(A), authoritativeness: independent recognition, relevant citations, references and entity consistency.
(T), trust: factual accuracy, primary sources, ownership, contact path, policies, corrections, security and non-deceptive presentation.
Hard trust override
If a material claim is false, unsafe, legally prohibited or unsupported, set publish eligibility to zero regardless of the score.

Measurement rubric
For every dimension, require a list of observed evidence. Two reviewers score independently. Report the mean, reviewer disagreement and the missing evidence. Calibrate the weights by regressing historical quality labels or business outcomes on these features. Never describe the output as Google's E-E-A-T score.


Reddit and LinkedIn Are Powerful—But “Highest Authority” Is Too Broad
Current evidence supports a narrower conclusion:

In Ahrefs' July 2026 Google AI Mode sample, Reddit captured 19.9% of citations among the tracked leading sources.
Semrush's study of 89,000 cited LinkedIn URLs found LinkedIn appeared in about 11% of responses on average across ChatGPT Search, Perplexity and Google AI Mode, ranking second in that dataset.
Ahrefs found only 14% of the top 50 mentioned sources were shared across ChatGPT, Perplexity and Google AI. There is no stable universal source hierarchy.
Another Ahrefs analysis found only 54.5% average URL overlap between consecutive AI Overview observations, showing substantial citation churn.
Google officially announced structured, fresher access to Reddit through Reddit's Data API. That makes access and freshness credible confounders; it does not publish a universal Reddit ranking bonus.
LinkedIn's professional graph, named authors and topical context are plausible mechanisms for professional queries; platform size alone is not proof.
House conclusion: use Reddit as a first-hand community-evidence channel and LinkedIn as a professional expertise/entity channel when the user job fits. Maintain the authoritative version on an owned property whenever control, conversion, updating and durable equity matter.

What Reddit and LinkedIn evidence actually establishes


Subject

System

Observation

Sample

Supported

Not supported
Content length	Google AI Overviews	Approximately 0.04 Spearman correlation with citation	Ahrefs cited-page corpus	Length alone was not predictive	A universal ideal AEO word count exists
Cross-engine	ChatGPT, Perplexity, Google AI	14% of top 50 mentioned sources shared across all three	Ahrefs monthly platform samples	Platform-specific measurement is mandatory	One universal AEO authority list exists
LinkedIn	ChatGPT Search, Perplexity, Google AI Mode	Appeared in 11% of responses on average; ranked second	Semrush study of 89,000 cited LinkedIn URLs	Strong representation, especially professional content	Every LinkedIn post will rank or be cited
Reddit	Google AI Mode	19.9% of citations among tracked leading sources	Ahrefs, July 2026 broad US sample	Highly represented in this observed system and period	Universally highest-authority domain
Reddit access	Google products	Structured, fresher Reddit Data API access announced	Official Google partnership statement	Access and freshness are plausible mechanisms	A published universal ranking bonus
Volatility	Google AI Overviews	54.5% average URL overlap between consecutive observations	Ahrefs repeated observations	Repeated measurement is required	One citation proves durability

Algorithm 1 — Prove Whether Reddit or LinkedIn Creates Incremental Advantage
Experimental unit
Use the topic concept, not each prompt run. Prompt repetitions are measurements nested inside a topic.

Design
Select at least three strata: community-opinion, professional-expertise and owned-transactional topics.
Create matched topic sets with similar demand, difficulty, brand relevance and starting visibility.
Randomize or stagger distribution among:
owned site only;
owned site + authentic Reddit participation;
owned site + expert LinkedIn publication;
owned site + both.
Keep factual payload, author expertise, timing and promotion as comparable as platform rules allow. Do not spam, impersonate users or publish deceptive duplicates.
Observe indexation, top-10 entry, retrieval, citation, mention, referral, assisted conversion and direct conversion.
Repeat prompts across engines, paraphrases, days, geography and signed-in state where lawful and practical.
Estimate platform effects with a hierarchical model.
Time-to-event model
Let (T_i) be time from publication to first qualifying result. Use Kaplan–Meier curves and a Cox model:

[ h_i(t)=h_0(t)exp(\beta_R Reddit_i+\beta_L LinkedIn_i+\gamma^TX_i) ]

A hazard ratio above 1 means faster arrival at the event, not greater authority. Run separate models for indexation, top-10 ranking and first citation.

Citation model
[ logit(P(Cite_{ijkt}=1))= \beta_0+\beta_RR_i+\beta_LL_i+\beta_OOrganicRank_i+ \beta_SSemanticFit_i+\beta_FFreshness_i+u_{query}+u_{engine}+u_{day} ]

Use clustered or hierarchical uncertainty. A simple proportion that ignores repeated prompts will overstate certainty.

Adoption rule
Adopt a channel for a query stratum only when:

[ P(Effect>\delta_{practical}\mid data)\ge0.95 ]

and factuality, moderation risk, conversion and brand guardrails pass. Use 0.80–0.94 only for a limited follow-up test.


Model 4 — AEO Is a Visibility Vector, Not a Rank
For each engine and prompt class, store:

[ \mathbf{G}=[A,R,C,M,P,F,S,V] ]

Activation (A), retrieval (R), citation (C), brand mention (M), prominence (P), fidelity (F), stability (S), and business value (V).

Never combine these into one number until the operational question is clear. A cited source with poor fidelity is a reputation problem; an uncited brand mention can still influence consideration; a citation with no referral can still be useful but must not be reported as traffic.

AI visibility metric dictionary


Metric

Formula

Denominator

Question answered
Activation rate	AI-feature answers / eligible prompt runs	Prompt runs	Does the prompt invoke an AI answer?
Citation rate	Runs with visible citation / runs	Prompt runs	How often is the source credited?
Citation stability	Citation intersection / citation union	Paired runs	Is visibility durable?
Conditional citation	Runs cited / runs retrieved	Retrieved runs	Does retrieved content survive selection?
Conversion rate	Qualified conversions / AI-referred sessions	AI-referred sessions	Do visits create value?
Fidelity	Supported brand claims / material brand claims	Material claims	Is the answer accurate?
Mention rate	Runs naming brand / runs	Prompt runs	Does the answer absorb the entity?
Prominence	Sum of position weights / runs	Prompt runs	How visible is it?
Referral rate	AI-referred sessions / cited runs	Cited runs	Does visibility produce visits?
Retrieval rate	Runs where URL is retrieved / runs	Prompt runs	Can the engine find and select the source?

Model 5 — Citation Readiness and Evidence Integrity
Use this as an editorial preflight score, not an engine-ranking claim.

[ CR=100(R^{0.25}Q^{0.20}U^{0.15}X^{0.15}T^{0.25})(1-P) ]

(R): relevance to the exact question and plausible fan-out subquestions;
(Q): claim-level evidence quality;
(U): unique information gain;
(X): extractability—a self-contained passage can answer without losing qualifications;
(T): trust and source transparency;
(P): penalty rate for contradictions, unsupported superlatives, stale facts, deceptive markup or commodity restatement.
Evidence integrity:

[ EI=100(0.40C+0.25S+0.20F+0.15R_c)(1-D) ]

(C): weighted claim coverage;
(S): source quality;
(F): support fidelity—the source actually supports the wording;
(R_c): freshness relative to the fact's decay rate;
(D): material contradiction rate.
Claim weighting
Assign each claim weight (m_i): 5 for legal/safety/financial or central decision claims, 3 for important supporting facts, 1 for context. Then:

[ C=\frac{\sum_i m_i Verified_i}{\sum_i m_i} ]

Any unverified weight-5 claim blocks publication. A high average cannot hide one dangerous claim.


Algorithm 2 — Build an Answer Unit That Can Rank, Be Cited and Survive Scrutiny
For every material user question:

Write the direct answer in one or two sentences.
State the scope, population, date and conditions.
Add the primary evidence or direct observation.
Explain the mechanism or reasoning.
Name exceptions and failure cases.
Provide the next action.
Attach a claim ledger: claim, source, owner, verified date and refresh trigger.
Link to deeper evidence without making the reader leave to understand the answer.
Test the passage cold: a reviewer must identify the question, answer, qualification and evidence.
Reject commodity paraphrase. Require at least one of: original data, first-hand result, tool, worked example, expert interpretation, proprietary process or materially clearer synthesis.
Google says there is no special AI-only chunk size, AI schema or required rewriting style. Structure the answer for human comprehension; the unit boundaries are editorial and analytical aids, not a published ranking hack.


Algorithm 3 — Infer Intent and Query Fan-Out
For a seed query (q):

Sample the live top results and AI answer, if present, across the target location/device.
Label each result's user job, format, audience, funnel stage, freshness and source type.
Extract related questions and plausible fan-out subqueries.
Cluster queries by result overlap and semantic job.
Estimate intent distribution:
[ P(I=k\mid q)=\frac{\alpha_k+n_k}{\sum_j(\alpha_j+n_j)} ]

(n_k) is the count of sampled results supporting intent (k); (alpha_k) is the prior, normally uniform until calibrated.

If the dominant intent probability is below 0.60, treat the query as mixed and design explicit sections or separate experiences.
If two query clusters have Jaccard result overlap at least 0.50, default to one page; 0.30–0.49 requires manual review; below 0.30 defaults to separate pages. These are house thresholds.
Recheck after major result changes. The SERP is evidence of current interpretation, not permanent truth.

Model 6 — Estimate the Probability That a Page Is Better
Compare only with the median of the top five genuinely comparable results: same intent, page type, geography and freshness need.

For feature (j):

[ z_j=\frac{x_{your,j}-Median(x_{top5,j})}{1.4826\times MAD_j+\epsilon} ]

Use robust median absolute deviation because a single extreme competitor should not set the benchmark.

Initial house model:

[ logit(P(Win))=\beta_0+ \beta_Iz_{intent}+ \beta_Uz_{unique}+ \beta_Ez_{evidence}+ \beta_Tz_{trust}+ \beta_Xz_{experience}+ \beta_Lz_{links}+ \beta_Pz_{performance} ]

Do not invent the coefficients. Fit them on your historical pages labeled by an explicit outcome such as top-5 entry within 90 days, normalized CTR improvement or incremental qualified conversions. Validate on later pages, not the training set.

Calibration checks
Brier score for probability accuracy;
calibration plot by predicted decile;
precision and recall at the chosen publish threshold;
performance separated by intent and risk class;
coefficient stability across time;
no protected or unethical proxy variables.

Model 7 — Update Beliefs Instead of Declaring Laws From Examples
For a binary event such as citation, begin with a Beta prior:

[ p\sim Beta(\alpha_0,\beta_0) ]

After (s) successes in (n) runs:

[ p\mid data\sim Beta(\alpha_0+s,\beta_0+n-s) ]

Use a weak (Beta(1,1)) prior when no credible prior exists. Use historical platform-stratum data only when the population is comparable.

Compare two variants with posterior simulation of (p_A-p_B). Report:

posterior median uplift;
95% credible interval;
(P(uplift>0));
(P(uplift>\delta_{practical}));
expected loss from choosing the wrong variant.
For quick frequentist reporting, use Wilson intervals for proportions. Never report “10 out of 10” as certainty; the uncertainty is still large.


Model 8 — Separate Causation From “It Went Up After We Changed It”
Difference-in-differences:

[ \hat\tau=(Y_{treat,after}-Y_{treat,before})- (Y_{control,after}-Y_{control,before}) ]

Use matched controls with similar pre-period trajectory, intent, seasonality and starting visibility. Check the parallel-trends assumption before treatment.

For page groups, SearchPilot-style testing uses statistically similar control and variant groups and forecasts expected organic traffic. For single URLs where randomized groups are impossible, use interrupted time series or synthetic controls and lower the causal confidence.

Mandatory sensitivity checks
remove branded queries;
separate mobile and desktop;
normalize CTR by position and result type;
exclude known outages and tracking changes;
model seasonality and major algorithm-update windows;
rerun without the largest page or topic;
require both statistical credibility and practical value.

Every Experiment Must Be Reproducible
The observation window, unit, treatment, comparison, primary metric, guardrails and stopping rule are written before launch. Repeated AI answers are stochastic samples, not separate independent topics.

Controlled-test requirements


Component

Rule

Reason
Control	Matched untreated pages or staggered release	Separates market movement
Decision rule	Effect, uncertainty and minimum practical value	Makes result actionable
Guardrails	Factuality, legal risk, conversion and brand harm	Prevents citation-only optimization
Primary outcome	Declared before launch	Prevents metric shopping
Receipt	Inputs, dates, URLs, outputs and raw observations	Makes test reproducible
Repetitions	Multiple paraphrases, times and engine runs	Measures stochastic output
Strata	Intent, topic, risk, engine, geography, brand status	Prevents composition bias
Treatment	One variable or declared bundle	Makes intervention interpretable
Unit	Topic-page or matched content concept	Prevents pseudo-replication
Window	Fixed pre/post and maturation period	Prevents favorable stopping

Algorithm 4 — The Final Decision Engine
```text INPUT asset, query cluster, engine, audience, risk class, costs, observed data

GATE if inaccessible, non-indexable when search visibility is required, materially false, unsafe, illegal, deceptive, or unsupported: BLOCK

DIAGNOSE compute eligibility vector estimate intent distribution score authority vector audit claim-level evidence measure organic and AI visibility vectors calculate stage probabilities and expected net value

COMPARE benchmark against user requirements benchmark against your historical winners benchmark against median top-five comparable results benchmark against a matched control or prior period

DECIDE if evidence is too weak: COLLECT else if expected net value <= 0: STOP else if P(effect > practical minimum) < 0.80: REJECT OR REDESIGN else if probability is 0.80–0.94: LIMITED TEST else if probability >= 0.95 and all guardrails pass: ADOPT FOR TESTED SCOPE

LEARN store features, prediction, decision, result, uncertainty and exceptions recalibrate weights only from reviewed outcomes ```

The scope clause is mandatory. A LinkedIn win for B2B professional prompts does not authorize a LinkedIn-first rule for local moving quotes, Medicare eligibility or product troubleshooting.

Decision thresholds


Test

Condition

Action

Confidence
Claim truth	Material unsupported claim exists	Block publication	High after audit
Model confidence	P(effect > practical minimum) < 0.80	Continue collecting or reject	Insufficient
Model confidence	P(effect > practical minimum) = 0.80–0.94	Promising; limited rollout	Moderate
Model confidence	P(effect > practical minimum) ≥ 0.95; guardrails pass	Adopt for tested scope	High within scope
Platform claim	One engine, prompt, date or topic	Label anecdotal	Low external validity
Platform claim	Replicated across engines, paraphrases, dates and topics	Label robust for sampled scope	Higher external validity
Practical value	Expected gain < implementation + risk cost	Do not implement	Economic decision
Technical eligibility	Any mandatory gate fails	Block publication or repair	Certain from inspection

Logic Rules That Prevent False Conclusions
Necessary is not sufficient. Indexability is necessary for Google Search visibility but does not cause ranking.
Correlation is not a mechanism. High Reddit citation share does not reveal whether the cause is content fit, freshness, access, links, engagement, training exposure or brand demand.
Speed is not authority. Time to index, time to rank, citation probability, stability and conversion are different dependent variables.
Domain averages do not determine page outcomes. A strong platform contains weak pages; a new owned site can win with uniquely relevant evidence.
Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. A page may not be cited in a small prompt sample because outputs are stochastic.
A single engine does not generalize. Retrieval sources differ sharply across systems.
A proxy cannot become the target. Optimizing vendor authority, word count or raw citation count can degrade truth and conversion.
The denominator is part of every fact. Ten citations means nothing without prompt runs, engine, period and eligible population.
The counterfactual defines impact. What happened is not the same as what happened because of the change.
Truth and user welfare are constraints, not weighted tradeoffs. They can block an otherwise high-scoring tactic.

Minimum Data Schema for Automation
Each observation row should contain:

``text observation_id asset_id, canonical_url, platform, author_entity query_or_prompt_id, normalized_intent, topic_cluster, risk_class engine, model_or_surface, locale, device, signed_in_state observed_at, asset_published_at, asset_updated_at eligible, indexed, organic_position, result_type ai_activated, retrieved, cited, citation_position, mentioned answer_claims_total, supported_claims, contradiction_count referral_sessions, engaged_sessions, qualified_conversions, value treatment_id, control_group, experiment_id source_capture, reviewer, review_status ``

Store raw observations separately from derived features and model outputs. Never overwrite a prior answer-engine observation because volatility is itself a metric. Version scoring rubrics and coefficients so an old decision remains reproducible.


Sampling and Power Rules
Sample all target engines separately; never average first.
Use at least three prompt paraphrases per underlying user job and multiple observation times.
Report topic count separately from total prompt runs.
Calculate sample size from baseline rate, minimum practical effect, alpha and desired power; do not use a universal magic count.
Correct or hierarchically model repeated testing across many topics.
Freeze the primary endpoint before looking at results.
Continue monitoring after adoption because citation sources and engine behavior change.
Two-proportion planning approximation:

[ n\approx \frac{ (z_{1-\alpha/2}\sqrt{2\bar p(1-\bar p)} +z_{1-\beta}\sqrt{p_1(1-p_1)+p_2(1-p_2)})^2 }{(p_2-p_1)^2} ]

This estimates observations per group before clustering. Inflate for topic/engine correlation using the design effect (1+(m-1)\rho).


Limitations, Uncertainty and Robustness
The internal ranking and citation systems are black boxes and change.
Third-party studies use different prompt sets, engines, dates and denominators; their percentages are not directly comparable.
Personalization, geography, signed-in state and live-web availability can change results.
Platform publication is not randomly assigned in normal operations; observational comparisons suffer selection bias.
Citation does not prove the cited passage caused the answer.
Brand mentions can come from training memory, retrieval, third-party pages or user context.
Automated semantic-similarity scores require human factual validation.
House weights are governance priors. Recalibration is required before predictive use.
High-stakes health, insurance, legal and financial topics require stronger evidence, credential and review gates.
The system optimizes durable business value subject to truth, safety, law and user welfare—not maximum exposure at any cost.

Authority Science — The Governing Definition
Authority is the conditional capacity of an asset, entity or publishing system to earn retrieval, ranking, citation and trust across a defined class of information needs. Ranking is one observed outcome of that capacity.

[ Authority \ne Rank ]

[ Rank_{u,q,e,l,d,t}=f(Relevance,Authority,Quality,Freshness,Intent,Competition,Context,Policies) ]

A position-1 result proves that the engine selected it for that query and observation context. It does not prove authority alone caused the selection or that the advantage transfers.

[ RankingCapacity=P(TopK\mid comparable\ queries, horizon) ]

[ RevealedAuthority=ObservedAdvantage-AdvantageExplainedByObservableFeatures ]

Use rank for observations, ranking capacity for repeatable performance, and revealed authority for the estimated residual advantage.

Authority and ranking outcome dictionary


Metric

Definition

Class

Rule
Citation authority	Conditional probability of citation after retrieval	AI selection	Separate retrieval from citation
Durable authority	Probability visibility survives a fixed horizon	Persistence	Use survival or retention analysis
Economic authority	Incremental margin caused by authority-enabled visibility	Business outcome	Requires attribution or causal design
Observed rank	Position or inclusion for one query, engine, location and time	Outcome	Never generalize from one observation
Ranking capacity	Probability of reaching a threshold across comparable queries	Latent capability	Estimate from repeated matched observations
Revealed authority	Residual advantage after observable factors are controlled	Estimated authority	Report model and uncertainty
Speed authority	Hazard of first indexation, top-10 entry or citation	Time-to-event	Name the event; speed is not durability

Model 9 — Estimate Revealed Authority Without Circular Reasoning
If authority means “whatever ranked,” it cannot explain ranking. Estimate it as a latent effect:

[ logit(P(TopK_{iq}=1))= \alpha_q+u_{domain[i]}+u_{topic[i]}+u_{page[i]}+ u_{author[i]}+u_{entity[i]}+u_{platform[i]}+\beta^TX_i ]

(alpha_q) captures query difficulty. The random effects capture reusable advantages associated with each authority layer. (X_i) contains observable relevance, evidence, freshness, links, performance, format and intent fit.

The platform or domain effect is not “true Google authority.” It is the model's residual estimate for the sampled population.

Required diagnostics
Train on earlier observations; validate on later ones.
Remove branded queries as a sensitivity check.
Model topic × platform interactions.
Report uncertainty for every layer.
Check probability calibration.
Refit after drift.
Never use the model outside represented query classes.

The Authority Stack Has Six Owners
Authority can belong to the host, subject area, URL, creator, real-world entity or third-party platform:

[ A_{total,q}=g(A_d,A_t,A_p,A_a,A_e,A_f,Interactions_q) ]

Do not simply add the components because correlated layers would be counted twice. Use a multilevel model or report the vector separately until coefficients are learned.

The six authority layers


Layer

Definition

Measurement

Preferred test

Main risk
Author	Advantage associated with a demonstrated creator	Named-author outcomes within controlled topics	Same publisher, different authors	Markup without evidence is weak
Domain	Reusable host advantage across its eligible corpus	Matched performance across topics and formats	Domain migration or host comparison	Hides topic/page differences
Entity	Independent recognition and factual consistency	Corroborating sources, mentions and identifiers	Entity cleanup and tracking	Mentions may be ambiguous
Page	Strength of an individual URL	Relevant links, evidence and stable outcomes	Page update or link experiment	Cannot be inferred from domain score
Platform	Inherited discovery, graph, trust and distribution	Matched cross-platform results	Randomized or staggered channel test	Rented and policy-dependent
Topic	Reusable advantage within a coherent subject	Topic-stratified ranking and citation outcomes	Near versus distant topic expansion	Coverage volume alone is not authority

Authority Inheritance Explains Fast Ranking on Strong Platforms
[ InitialCapacity= PlatformPrior+CrawlAdvantage+InternalGraph+ EntityContext+AudienceDistribution+QueryFit ]

[ Capacity_t=InheritedCapacity_t+EarnedPageCapacity_t ]

Inherited authority is conditional, rented and revocable. It does not automatically transfer to the publisher's domain.

Google's site-reputation-abuse policy confirms the distinction: third-party material placed mainly to exploit a host's established ranking signals can violate policy. Legitimate participation must fit the platform and serve its audience, not merely rent a hostname.

Inherited platform authority ledger


Inherited source

Benefit

Observable effect

Owned alternative

Limit
Audience graph	Followers, communities and subscriptions	Distribution and feedback	Build owned audience	Platform controls reach
Crawl access	Frequent discovery and internal linking	Faster discovery/indexing	Improve owned crawl paths	No guarantee of selection
Entity context	Profiles, employment and communities	Disambiguation and topical context	Maintain consistent owned profiles	Profiles may be stale
Fresh content supply	Current discussion and reactions	Freshness and experience	Publish original updates	Recency can outrank depth
Host reputation	Established historical signals and enforcement	Higher prior eligibility or trust	Build owned brand/entity	Off-topic hosting may be abuse
Link graph	Large internal/external citation network	Discovery and graph signals	Earn owned links	Platform links may be qualified

Model 10 — Measure Whether Authority Transfers
[ Transfer(s\rightarrow t)= \frac{Effect_{target\ after\ source}-CounterfactualTargetEffect} {Effect_{source}} ]

Near 0 means success remains trapped on the source platform/topic; 0–1 is partial transfer; above 1 indicates compounding; below 0 indicates cannibalization or damage.

Measure referral, branded-search lift, new referring domains, independent mentions, audience capture, assisted conversions, improved owned rankings and entity-query accuracy.

Use matched topics with staggered external publication:

[ \tau_{transfer}=\Delta OwnedOutcome_{treated}-\Delta OwnedOutcome_{control} ]

A Reddit post ranking by itself is platform success. It becomes transferred authority only when a controlled owned outcome improves.


Model 11 — Rented Authority Versus Owned Authority
[ RentedValue=ImmediateExposure+CitationInfluence+BrandLift- ModerationRisk-PlatformDependence-LostData ]

[ OwnedValue=DirectMargin+LinksEarned+AudienceCaptured+ FutureRankingLift+ReusableEvidence+DataControl-MaintenanceCost ]

[ NPV_c=\sum_{t=1}^{H}\frac{IncrementalValue_{c,t}-Cost_{c,t}-ExpectedLoss_{c,t}}{(1+r)^t} ]

Use one horizon and discount rate across channels. Platform reach often wins short horizons; owned evidence often wins long horizons. Convert rented discovery into owned demand without violating community rules or manufacturing mentions.

Owned and rented authority channels


Channel

Ownership

Compounding

Speed

Dependency risk

Evidence value

Primary job
Digital PR / earned media	Low	High when editorial	Slow-medium	Medium	Medium-high	Independent corroboration and links
Directories / profiles	Low	Low-medium	Fast	Medium-high	Low-medium	Entity consistency and local discovery
LinkedIn	Low-medium	Medium	Fast for professional queries	Medium-high	High	Professional expertise and entity association
Owned email / community	High	High	Fast after audience exists	Low	Medium	Distribution, feedback and repeat demand
Owned website	High	High	Medium	Medium	High	Canonical evidence, conversion and compounding
Reddit	Low	Low	Fast when fit is strong	High	High	First-hand participation and community evidence
YouTube	Medium	Medium-high	Medium	Medium	High	Demonstration and multimodal discovery

Authority Cannot Rescue Irrelevance
[ logit(P(TopK))=\beta_0+\beta_RR+\beta_AA+\beta_{RA}(R\times A)+\beta^TX ]

Establish an empirical relevance floor:

[ R<R_{min}\Rightarrow DoNotCompete ]

Authority matters only within a candidate set relevant enough to be retrieved. This prevents off-topic publishing on strong hosts. When relevance is comparable, evidence, links, entity support, freshness and usefulness may create the advantage.


Model 12 — Authority and Evidence Decay
[ A(t)=A_0e^{-\lambda t} qquad HalfLife=\frac{\ln 2}{\lambda} ]

Estimate (lambda) from historical performance, separated by fact class and query. Do not give a law, software price, evergreen definition and historical case the same decay rate.

Refresh when:

[ ExpectedLossFromStaleness>RefreshCost+ChangeRisk ]

A refresh means re-verification—not merely changing the date. Preserve historical evidence and state what changed.

Authority and factual-decay classes


Fact class

Half-life class

Review cadence

Trigger
First-hand historical evidence	Persistent with context	Preserve; add follow-up	New evidence changes interpretation
Foundational definitions and mathematics	Long	Annual verification	Source correction or conceptual change
How-to processes and professional practice	Medium-long	Quarterly to annual	Workflow, tool or standard change
Live prices, availability, regulations, model behavior	Very short	Continuous or daily	Material source change, contradiction or failed validation
News, platform studies, current recommendations	Short	Weekly to monthly	New study, engine release or distribution shift
Product and service comparisons	Medium	Monthly to quarterly	Feature, price, competitor or intent change

Model 13 — Information Gain Creates Defensible Authority
Represent pages as weighted atomic claims (C):

[ WeightedJaccard(C_{new},C_j)= \frac{\sum_{c\in intersection}w_c}{\sum_{c\in union}w_c} ]

[ NCS=\frac{\sum_c w_c\mathbf{1}(c\ not\ supported\ by\ comparable\ pages)} {\sum_cw_c} ]

[ IG=NCS\times EvidenceIntegrity\times UserRelevance ]

Rewording is not novelty. Require a different supported fact, result, example, mechanism, dataset, tool or interpretation.

House thresholds: below 0.10 normally reject/consolidate; 0.10–0.24 requires materially better clarity or completion; 0.25+ is a strong differentiation candidate. Calibrate against outcomes and human review.


Model 14 — Link Authority Is a Graph, Not a Backlink Count
The original PageRank concept distributes importance through links:

[ PR(u)=\frac{1-d}{N}+d\sum_{v\in B(u)}\frac{PR(v)}{L(v)} ]

Modern ranking is more complex, but a link's value still cannot be reduced to count alone.

[ LinkPriority= Relevance(v,u)\times SourceStrength(v)\times UserUtility(v,u)\times TargetNeed(u) ]

Link from relevant strong pages where the destination advances the user's job; use descriptive anchors; prevent orphans; avoid exact-match manipulation; measure crawl, ranking and navigation separately; qualify paid links. Editorial, relevant, independently motivated links provide the strongest evidence.


Model 15 — Entity Authority Is Corroborated Identity
Construct a graph of people, organizations, credentials, works, locations and topics. Every edge names the relationship and evidence.

[ EC=\frac{\sum_iw_iAgreement_i}{\sum_iw_i} ]

[ IC=\sum_s Quality_s\times Independence_s\times Relevance_s\times ClaimCoverage_s ]

Cap repeated sources from one owner or syndication chain. Copied claims are not independent confirmation. Structured data can clarify visible entities and relationships; it cannot manufacture real-world authority.

Entity authority evidence


Dimension

Pass condition

Evidence

Failure pattern
Credential verification	Qualifications can be checked	Licensing bodies, institutions and records	Unverifiable badge
Factual agreement	Material facts agree across reliable sources	Cross-source claim ledger	Repeated copied error
Identity consistency	Same canonical name, organization, role and identifiers	Official profiles and owned pages	Conflicting names or outdated roles
Independent recognition	Relevant third parties describe or cite entity	Editorial references, associations, regulators, partners	Paid or circular syndication
Recency and maintenance	Profiles and claims remain current	Review dates and monitoring	Dormant profiles
Topical association	Substantive repeated association with subject	Authored work, talks, cases and citations	Keyword-stuffed biography

Model 16 — Measure Brand Demand Without Calling It a Ranking Factor
[ BrandShare=\frac{BrandSearches}{BrandSearches+CompetitorBrandSearches} ]

[ DemandLift=\Delta BrandSearch_{treated}-\Delta BrandSearch_{control} ]

Also track navigational visits, unaided mentions, branded prompt mention rate, branded conversion, repeat visitors and independent co-citations.

Do not claim that increasing searches mechanically raises rankings. Brand demand is an outcome of recognition and a confounder in authority analysis.


Model 17 — Ranking Without Satisfaction Is a Fragile Win
Google emphasizes helpful, satisfying experiences but does not publish a universal dwell-time formula.

[ TaskSuccess=\frac{UsersCompletingDefinedJob}{EligibleEngagedUsers} ]

[ Comprehension=\frac{CorrectAnswersOnColdTest}{QuestionsAsked} ]

[ SatisfactionIndex=w_1TaskSuccess+w_2Comprehension+ w_3QualifiedConversion+w_4ReturnIntent-w_5CorrectionRate-w_6ComplaintRate ]

Set weights by user job. In YMYL, comprehension and correction rates outweigh superficial engagement. Long time may mean interest or confusion; short time may mean success or abandonment.


Model 18 — Authority Compounds Only When Gains Are Retained
[ OwnedAuthority_{t+1}=(1-\delta)OwnedAuthority_t+ EarnedLinks_t+IndependentMentions_t+VerifiedEvidence_t+ AudienceRetention_t+Transfer_t-Contradictions_t-PolicyLoss_t ]

Compounding loop: publish verified original evidence; distribute where the audience exists; earn independent discussion; capture interested users on owned properties; update the canonical evidence; launch adjacent assets; test whether later comparable pages succeed faster; stop when transfer falls or topic coherence breaks.

The proof of topical authority is improved capacity for new useful pages—not page count.


Model 19 — Allocate Authority Work as a Portfolio
Let (x_c) be effort, (mu_c) expected incremental value and (Sigma) channel covariance:

[ \max_x\;x^T\mu-\lambda x^T\Sigma x-ExpectedPlatformLoss(x) ]

Subject to:

[ \sum_cx_c\le Budget,quad x_{owned}\ge MinimumOwnedInvestment,quad Risk_c\le Limit_c ]

Use observed incremental value, not followers or vendor authority scores. Preserve minimum owned investment so short-term platform success cannot starve the asset that converts and compounds.


Model 20 — Price Platform Dependency
[ ExpectedPlatformLoss=P(Removal)\times AssetValue+ P(ReachCollapse)\times RevenueAtRisk+ P(PolicyChange)\times MigrationCost+ DataLossCost+ReputationExposure ]

Score removal, reach volatility, moderation dependence, inability to update cited copies, data capture limits, attribution loss, competitor adjacency, impersonation and maintenance. Use platforms—while maintaining canonical owned evidence, source records and alternative distribution.


Model 21 — Detect Authority Drift Before Rules Become Folklore
[ PSI=\sum_b(p_b-q_b)\ln\frac{p_b}{q_b} ]

[ J(A,B)=\frac{|A\cap B|}{|A\cup B|} ]

[ Brier=\frac{1}{n}\sum_i(\hat p_i-y_i)^2 ]

Drift alerts trigger investigation, not automatic blame on an algorithm update. Check tracking, indexation, query mix, seasonality, competitors, result features and policy changes first.

Authority-model drift triggers


Area

Metric

House trigger

Action
Citation-source churn	Jaccard overlap across runs	Below 0.50 for two windows	Increase sampling; lower durability claims
Economic drift	Value per organic or AI visit	Outside control limits or margin change	Update allocation
Feature drift	PSI or Jensen–Shannon divergence	PSI ≥ 0.20 or sustained shift	Recalibrate or restrict scope
Policy drift	Published platform/search policy change	Any relevant change	Immediate compliance review
Probability calibration	Brier score and calibration error	Material deterioration from baseline	Audit labels/data, then refit
Ranking distribution drift	PSI by position/visibility band	PSI ≥ 0.20	Investigate query mix, engine and competition

Apply Different Authority Models to Different User Jobs
Community experience, professional expertise, local service selection and YMYL guidance require different evidence and channel mixes. One authority strategy across all four will misallocate effort.

Authority strategy by query class


Query class

Dominant authority

Channel pattern

Success metric

Failure mode
Community experience	Experience + platform/context fit	Reddit plus owned synthesis	Stable citations, mentions and assisted demand	Anecdote treated as fact
Local service	Local entity + relevance + reviews + owned page	Business Profile, local sources and owned site	Qualified local leads and booked value	Ignoring distance or relevance
Professional B2B	Author + entity + corroboration	LinkedIn plus owned research/cases	Qualified citations and pipeline	Generic thought leadership
YMYL guidance	Trust + verified expertise + primary evidence	Owned reviewed content plus authoritative corroboration	Accurate qualified conversions; zero material errors	Visibility ahead of safety

Authority-Building Operating Algorithm
```text

DEFINE query class, user job, engine, geography and horizon.
GATE technical eligibility, truth, safety, legality and platform policy.
MEASURE rank, retrieval, citation, demand and conversion baselines.
DECOMPOSE domain, topic, page, author, entity and platform authority.
IDENTIFY the constraint: relevance, evidence, graph, entity, freshness,
distribution, trust, conversion or ownership.

CREATE one non-commodity canonical asset with a claim ledger.
SELECT channels whose audience and context fit the job.
TEST owned-only versus platform-assisted matched topics.
ESTIMATE speed, durability, citation, transfer and economics separately.
ADOPT only when practical effect and guardrails pass.
CAPTURE transferable gains as owned links, demand, audience and evidence.
MONITOR decay, drift, policy risk and calibration.
UPDATE the prior; never convert one win into a universal law.
`

Every receipt records the asset, authority layers, hypothesis, counterfactual, cost, risk, observation window, outcome vector, uncertainty and next action.


Authority Fallacies — Prohibited Reasoning
“It ranks, therefore it is authoritative in every sense.”
“The domain is strong, therefore every page inherits equal power.”
“It indexed first, therefore it will rank highest or longest.”
“Reddit wins aggregate citations, therefore Reddit is best for this query.”
“LinkedIn is professional, therefore any company post demonstrates expertise.”
“More topical pages automatically create topical authority.”
“A citation is valuable without checking relevance and independence.”
“Schema creates expertise or entity authority.”
“Engagement proves satisfaction.”
“A platform win transferred without measuring owned outcomes.”
“A historical authority score remains valid after drift.”
“Statistical significance makes a trivial or unsafe tactic worthwhile.”

The Search Intelligence Operating System
This expansion converts the manual from an SEO checklist into a decision system. It answers ten questions in order:

Relevance: does this asset fit this exact information need?
Demand: how much real problem demand exists, including demand hidden from keyword tools?
Surface: which host–discovery-surface pair has the best risk-adjusted value?
Architecture: can users and crawlers reach and understand the intended canonical asset?
Evidence: are its claims independently supported, current and scoped?
Choice: will an examined result be chosen for the right reason?
Economics: did the system create incremental contribution margin?
Diagnostics: where is the earliest failed state?
Monitoring: which change is material, persistent and causally plausible?
Governance: which versioned law is active, and when must it be revalidated?
These equations do not reconstruct Google, Bing, Reddit, LinkedIn or any AI model. They govern our decisions under uncertainty.


The Three Labels That Must Never Be Blended
OFFICIAL means a platform or standards body states how its own eligibility, reporting, policy or interface works. It does not automatically prove the size of a ranking effect.
RESEARCH means a method or finding has inspectable evidence. Applicability still depends on population, assumptions and replication.
HOUSE means this lawbook chooses a rubric, weight, threshold or operational policy so decisions are consistent. It is not a search-engine factor.
A weighted manual score is an ordinal decision aid, not a probability. Probability language is permitted only after calibration against resolved outcomes. Ten articles repeating one original source count as one evidence origin, not ten confirmations.


Relevance and Retrieval Science
Authority is reusable capacity to compete. Relevance is conditional fit for a particular information need. Ranking is the observed ordering after relevance, authority, quality, context and competition interact.

$$Rel(p,q,c)$$

Here, (p) is a page or passage, (q) is the information need, and (c) is language, locale, device, time and available surface. A page is never “relevant in general.”

Use the vector:

$$\mathbf R=[L,S,T,E,P,F,X]$$

(L): lexical fit
(S): semantic/concept fit
(T): task and intent fit
(E): entity and explicit-constraint fit
(P): passage answerability
(F): format/surface fit
(X): context such as freshness, language and locale
Google documents systems for concept matching and passage understanding, while also separating relevance from helpfulness. Those facts justify measuring multiple dimensions; they do not disclose Google's weights. See Google's ranking-systems guide and AI-search guidance.


Lexical Retrieval: Exact Language Still Matters
BM25 is a research baseline, not a claim about Google's private implementation:

$$BM25(D,Q)=\sum_{t\in Q}IDF(t)\frac{f(t,D)(k_1+1)}{f(t,D)+k_1(1-b+b|D|/avgdl)}$$

It explains four practical truths:

rare, discriminating terms contribute more than ubiquitous words;
additional repetitions saturate;
document length is normalized;
lexical matching alone cannot determine task fulfillment.
HOUSE LAW: never use keyword density. Measure lexical retrievability as the percentile of BM25 within a same-intent comparison set consisting of the top five comparable results, known relevant internal pages and negative-control pages. Raw BM25 scores are corpus- and query-dependent and must not be compared across unrelated queries. The Stanford IR text contains the underlying retrieval models.


Semantic and Hybrid Retrieval
Dense retrieval represents queries and passages as vectors:

$$Semantic(q,p)=\cos(e_q,e_p)=\frac{e_q\cdot e_p}{\|e_q\|\|e_p\|}$$

A raw cosine threshold is model-specific. Calibrate it against known-relevant passages and hard negatives:

$$S=clip\left(\frac{\cos(q,p)-Median(Negatives_q)}{P_{95}(Relevant_q)-Median(Negatives_q)},0,1\right)$$

Lexical and semantic systems fail differently. Fuse ranked candidate lists with Reciprocal Rank Fusion:

$$RRF(d)=\sum_{r\in Rankings}\frac{1}{k+rank_r(d)}$$

The original research commonly used (k=60); that is a research default, not a Google parameter. Maintain separate lexical, semantic, entity/constraint and human task-fit rankings so one score cannot hide a fatal mismatch. Research examples include Dense Passage Retrieval, ColBERT and RRF.


Task Fit, Intent Entropy and Constraints
Semantic similarity does not equal task completion. Score required task elements:

$$T=\frac{\sum_j w_jm_j}{\sum_jw_j},\quad m_j\in\{0,0.5,1\}$$

For a comparison task, include the same alternatives, decision criteria, direct differences, conditions favoring each option, evidence, tradeoffs and recommendation by situation.

HOUSE GATES

any missing critical requirement or explicit critical constraint: fail;
(T\ge0.80): adequate;
(0.70\le T<0.80): revise;
(T<0.70): retarget, split or reject.
Label the top same-context results by intent. With (p_i) as the share of intent (i):

$$H_N=-\frac{\sum_i p_i\ln p_i}{\ln n}$$

dominant intent: (p_{max}\ge0.60);
mixed intent: (0.40\le p_{max}<0.60);
highly ambiguous: (p_{max}<0.40).
These are HOUSE thresholds. Repeat observations across relevant devices/geographies and at least two days. A SERP is evidence of current selection, not objective truth.


Passage Answerability and Query Fan-Out
Represent the information need as atomic subquestions:

$$F(q)=\{core,cause,options,constraints,comparison,risk,next\ step\}$$

For sections (s_k), calculate:

$$PassageCoverage=\frac{\sum_j w_j\max_k Rel(q_j,s_k)}{\sum_jw_j}$$

Weight core, explicit constraint and decision-critical subquestions twice as heavily as peripheral curiosity. A useful section contains a descriptive heading, direct answer or decision, supporting reasoning/evidence, qualifications and a next step where appropriate.

HOUSE: coverage (ge0.85) is strong, (0.70–0.84) requires revision, and below (0.70) is inadequate. Do not create a page for every fan-out variation or manufacture tiny “AI chunks.” Google explicitly says normal SEO eligibility still applies and warns against scaled, low-value query-variation pages.


Retrieval Evaluation and the House Relevance Score
Create a frozen gold query set, blind the assessors to rank/brand where practical, and grade candidate results (0,1,2,3). Use Precision@K, Recall@K, MRR and nDCG@K from the table below.

For editorial governance:

$$R_{page}=100(0.30T+0.15L+0.15S+0.15E+0.15P+0.10F)-Penalties$$

Penalties: critical constraint missing = fail; materially wrong geography/date = fail; contradictory answer −20; unsupported decisive claim −15; primary task buried −15; format mismatch −10.

HOUSE: (R\ge80) publish/retain; (65–79) revise/test; (<65) reject, retarget or consolidate. This is an explicit operating rubric—not a ranking formula.

Retrieval and relevance measures


Metric

Formula or scoring rule

What it answers

Decision rule
BM25	Σ IDF(t) × f(t,d)(k₁+1) / [f(t,d)+k₁(1-b+b|d|/avgdl)]	Does the document contain discriminating query terms with length normalization?	Use as a lexical baseline; more repetition is not automatically better.
Cosine similarity	(q·d)/(||q|| ||d||)	How aligned are query and document representations?	Use for vocabulary mismatch; inspect exact rare terms separately.
MRR	mean(1/rank of first relevant result)	How quickly does the first useful answer appear?	Use for single-answer or navigational tasks.
nDCG@K	DCG@K / ideal DCG@K	Are highly relevant results ranked above marginally relevant results?	Use graded relevance judgments and report K.
Normalized intent entropy	−Σpᵢln(pᵢ) / ln(n)	How mixed is the plausible intent distribution?	House rule: >0.60 signals a mixed-intent SERP requiring segmentation or a deliberate hybrid page.
Passage coverage	answered atomic subquestions / required atomic subquestions	Does a retrievable passage directly answer each required subquestion?	Target critical-question coverage of 1.00; do not add irrelevant breadth.
Precision@K	relevant items in top K / K	How clean is the visible result set?	Prioritize for narrow or high-cost decision queries.
Recall@K	relevant items in top K / all relevant items	How much of the known relevant set was retrieved?	Prioritize during discovery and candidate generation.
Task fit	Σ wⱼ × rubricⱼ, each rubric 0–1	Can the page complete the user's actual job?	Hard-fail a page that matches words but not task, format or audience.

Search-Demand Science
Keyword-tool volume is a measurement of some expressed search language—not the market itself.

$$ObservedVolume=ProblemDemand\times SearchExpressionRate\times ToolCoverage\times ReportingAvailability$$

Therefore:

$$ObservedVolume=0\not\Rightarrow ProblemDemand=0$$

A zero can mean low volume, privacy suppression, close-variant aggregation, fragmented phrasing, an emerging problem, demand expressed in calls/communities/AI, or no eligible property page. Keyword Planner supplies modeled advertising-oriented estimates; Google Trends supplies sampled normalized interest; Search Console observes only the property's recorded exposure and withholds anonymized queries.


The Demand Unit Is a User Job, Not a Keyword
Define a demand unit as:

$$DemandUnit=Problem+Audience+Trigger+DesiredOutcome+Constraints$$

“ACA subsidy calculator,” “how much ACA subsidy,” and “Obamacare income discount” may express one overlapping job. Adding tool volumes can double-count people and sessions.

For keyword/query clustering, compare the top-(N) canonical result URLs:

$$J(A,B)=\frac{|URLs_A\cap URLs_B|}{|URLs_A\cup URLs_B|}$$

Preserve the manual's HOUSE rules: (J\ge0.50) normally one page; (0.30–0.49) manual task review; (J<0.30) normally separate pages. Task mismatch overrides overlap.


Triangulate Latent Demand Without False Precision
Normalize each source within the candidate set:

$$z_{ij}=PercentileRank_j(\log(1+x_{ij}))$$

Then compute a relative index:

$$DI_j=100\sum_i w_i z_{ij}$$

Default HOUSE weights: observed GSC/paid queries 0.25; Keyword Planner 0.20; Trends direction 0.15; first-party calls/CRM/support 0.25; community questions 0.15. Change them when a source is structurally censored. A new site should down-weight its own GSC; a mature ranking property can up-weight it.

Record evidence availability and quality separately:

$$Confidence_j=\frac{\sum_iw_i a_{ij}}{\sum_iw_i}$$

This confidence index scores recency, sample quality and representativeness. It is not a statistical probability. Never sum sources with overlapping people/queries as though they were independent.


Zero-Volume and Emerging-Demand Algorithm
A zero-volume topic can enter a bounded pilot when:

at least two independent evidence classes reveal the same task;
the affected audience and trigger are explicit;
HOUSE business-value score is at least 70/100;
existing-answer gap is at least 0.60;
the expected-value distribution is not clearly negative.
$$Gap=1-\frac{\sum_jw_jBestExistingAnswer_j}{\sum_jw_j}$$

Build the smallest complete owned answer, choose one native distribution host, run a limited paid-demand test when economically reasonable, and update the estimate from impressions, qualified actions, conversions, assisted branded demand, and sales/support use. A fixed AI prompt panel measures visibility conditional on those prompts; it is not AI market volume.


Seasonality, Growth and Uncertainty
Monthly seasonality:

$$Seasonality_m=\frac{Volume_m}{\frac{1}{12}\sum_{j=1}^{12}Volume_j}$$

Matched-period growth:

$$Growth=\frac{Median(CurrentMatchedPeriod)}{Median(PriorYearMatchedPeriod)}-1$$

Do not compare unmatched months for seasonal topics. For sparse observations, model a rate distribution or report a bounded scenario rather than inventing a point estimate. Every demand forecast must name geography, language, search network/surface, time window, source coverage and confidence range.


Demand-to-Value Decision
$$EV_j=D_jP(Visible_j)P(Engage_j|Visible)P(Convert_j|Engage)Margin_j+MeasuredOptions-Cost-Risk$$

Treat uncertain inputs as distributions and report median EV, P10/P90, probability EV is positive and maximum plausible loss.

HOUSE: build/scale when (P(EV>0)\ge0.80) and the P10 loss fits the budget; pilot at (0.55–0.79); defer below 0.55 unless content is strategically, legally or operationally mandatory. Strategic overrides must be labeled and cannot be disguised as proven demand.

Demand signal register


Signal

What it observes

Main blind spot

Default evidence weight

Best use
Community discussions	Natural language, objections and emerging problems	Platform demographics, brigading and unverifiable anecdotes	Medium for language; low for prevalence	Hypothesis generation and answer-unit language
Competitor result coverage	What engines currently retrieve for a topic class	Supply is not demand; competitors can all be wrong	Medium	Format, surface and missing-subtopic analysis
CRM and sales calls	Questions tied to opportunities and revenue	Small, selected sample; seller framing	High for economic value	Decision-stage jobs, objections and lead value
Google Trends	Normalized relative search interest	No absolute volume and sampling can vary	Medium-high for direction	Seasonality, breakout topics and geographic comparison
Internal site search	Needs expressed by existing visitors	Biased toward current audience and navigation failures	High for product/content gaps	Vocabulary and missing-answer discovery
Interviews or surveys	Stated needs from a defined sample	Recall, social-desirability and sampling bias	Medium-high if designed well	Job taxonomy and probability bounds
Keyword Planner	Advertising-oriented keyword estimates and forecasts	Rounded, grouped and modeled; not a census of organic searches	Medium	Range sizing and commercial vocabulary
Repeated prompt panel	Answers/citations for a fixed set of AI prompts	Prompt wording, model, account, location and time dependence	Medium for tracked panel only	AI retrieval/citation monitoring, not population demand
Search Console queries	Impressions and clicks where the property was eligible and recorded	No visibility before exposure; rare anonymized queries can be omitted from rows	High for owned observed demand	Existing-query distribution, pages and trend deltas
Support and chat logs	Post-acquisition confusion and recurring friction	Existing-customer bias	High for retention/help demand	Troubleshooting, documentation and expectation repair

Search-Surface and Asset-Host Selection
Reddit, LinkedIn, YouTube, a Business Profile and an owned website are asset hosts. Google web, AI answers, Images, Video, Local, Shopping, Discover and in-platform feeds/search are discovery surfaces.

Select a pair ((h,s)), not a vague “channel.” A LinkedIn article can surface in Google web, LinkedIn feed/search and an AI answer. A Reddit thread can surface in Reddit search, Google forum results and third-party AI responses. Ranking quickly on a strong host reveals conditional distribution advantage; it does not transfer that host's authority to your owned domain.


Host–Surface Expected Value
$$NEV_{h,s}=D_qP(Eligible)P(Visible)P(Engage)P(Convert)Margin+AssetEquity_h-Cost-Risk$$

$$Risk_{h,s}=\sum_eP(e)\times Loss(e)$$

Include moderation/removal, account loss, policy changes, inability to update, missing analytics, referral loss and citation volatility. Owned asset equity may include reusable research, links, subscribers, direct audience and conversion control—but future value remains a scenario until measured.

Google AI search retrieves sources from Search and does not require special AI schema or files. Local has unavoidable distance constraints. Product surfaces depend on accurate product data. Discover is interest-led and cannot be guaranteed. Those eligibility facts are embedded in the matrix below.


Surface Fit and Portfolio Rules
$$Fit_{h,s}=0.35IntentFit+0.25FormatNeed+0.20AudienceConcentration+0.10Eligibility+0.10Measurability$$

HOUSE: (Fit\ge0.75) lead; (0.55–0.74) support/pilot; below 0.55 do not lead. If top options differ by less than 15% or uncertainty overlaps, test both. If the owned asset's NEV is within 20% of the best rented asset, build the owned canonical first for control and compounding.

Portfolio objective:

$$\max_x\left[\sum_i x_iNEV_i+\sum_{i<j}\gamma_{ij}x_ix_j-\sum_{i<j}\delta_{ij}Overlap_{ij}\right]$$

Here (gamma) captures synergy and (delta) captures duplication/cannibalization, subject to budget, labor, compliance and dependency limits.


Host–Surface Operating Algorithm
Classify the task: informational, transactional, local, visual, demonstrative, lived-experience, professional-author, or comparison/reasoning.
List viable hosts and discovery surfaces separately.
Apply eligibility and policy gates for every pair.
Sample current surface prevalence by device, locale and date.
Calculate task–surface fit and NEV as distributions.
Require an owned canonical for evergreen proprietary knowledge, regulated claims, tools, datasets and durable conversion.
Participate natively on rented platforms; never fabricate consensus or abuse reputation.
Run paired pilots where estimates overlap.
Measure time-to-visibility, exposure, qualified action, citation, durability, conversion and asset equity.
Re-estimate quarterly or upon platform drift.
Asset-host × discovery-surface decision matrix


Host × surface

Strongest job

Eligibility gate

Primary metric

Dependency

Canonical policy
Business Profile × Local	Near-me, visit, call, route or book	Eligible verified entity; accurate category, location and profile	Calls, directions, bookings and distance-normalized grid	Very high	Profile truth aligned with owned location/service page
LinkedIn article/post × LinkedIn/Google/AI	Professional judgment, operator experience and B2B evidence	Public visibility, credible author/entity and platform-native value	Qualified reach, leads, external retrieval/citation and branded demand	Very high	Rented professional distribution; owned canonical for durable IP
Owned article × Discover	Interest-led timely discovery	Indexed, policy-compliant, compelling content with suitable imagery	Qualified Discover traffic and audience retention	Very high	Supplemental surface; never forecast as guaranteed
Owned audience × Direct return	Return, retain and act without new retrieval	Consent, relationship and deliverability	Incremental retained contribution and repeat action	Low-medium	Dependency hedge that compounds owned attention
Owned page/image × Images	Visual inspiration, identification, design or product selection	Accessible original image with useful page context and metadata	Image impressions, qualified visits and assisted conversion	Medium	Original image on relevant owned canonical
Owned website × Featured snippet	Short factual, definitional or procedural answer	Indexed page with extractable query-appropriate passage	Feature ownership, qualified clicks and task completion	High	Direct answer within complete canonical page
Owned website × Google AI	Synthesis, comparison and sourced reasoning	Indexed and snippet-eligible source; engine retrieves and selects it	Frozen-panel retrieval, citation, accurate mention and assisted action	High	Owned evidence source and destination
Owned website × Google web	Evergreen explanation, comparison, commercial task or canonical evidence	Crawlable, indexable, relevant canonical document	Qualified organic sessions and incremental contribution	Medium	Primary owned canonical
Product page and feed × Shopping	Price, availability, variant and purchase comparison	Accurate product data, eligibility and policy compliance	Eligible items, impressions, clicks, margin and feed errors	High	Owned product truth; feed and structured data agree
Reddit post × Google/Reddit/AI	Troubleshooting, lived experience and peer discussion	Correct community, authentic participation and rule compliance	Thread survival, qualified discussion, referrals and frozen-panel citations	Very high	Rented discovery; preserve durable evidence on owned property where appropriate
Watch page or YouTube × Video	Demonstration, walkthrough, review or visual proof	Accessible video, stable thumbnail and indexable performing watch page where owned	Search impressions, qualified views, watch quality and assisted action	Medium-high	Owned transcript/watch asset when durability matters
YouTube video × YouTube/Google/AI	Demonstration, sequence, review and creator-led explanation	Relevant searchable content with quality engagement and policy compliance	Search views, watch satisfaction, leads and citations	High	Own the supporting page/transcript when control matters

Information Architecture and Site-Graph Science
Google officially recommends crawlable links, descriptive anchors, logical organization, consistent canonicals and clean sitemaps. Google does not publish a three-click rule, ideal internal-link count, hub-and-spoke ranking formula, cannibalization threshold, URL-directory-depth factor or current PageRank formula. Every exact architecture threshold below is HOUSE.


Model Three Graphs, Not One Website
$$G_U=(V_U,E_U)\quad G_C=(V_C,E_C)\quad G_K=(V_K,E_K)$$

(G_U): pages and links a normal user can navigate.
(G_C): URLs reachable through permitted, crawlable, rendered links.
(G_K): intended canonical indexable identities, with redirects and duplicates collapsed.
A user-visible link can be absent from (G_C) if it is not a real crawlable link or rendering fails. A crawled URL can be absent from (G_K) because it redirects, is noindexed, duplicates another page or canonicalizes elsewhere.

Inventory every observed/normalized URL with status, robots, raw/rendered links, declared and selected canonical, sitemap, inlinks, depth, template, cluster, intent, business tier, index state, query set, outcomes and last update.


Reachability and Path Resilience Are Hard Gates
$$Reachability=\frac{important\ canonical\ pages\ reachable}{important\ canonical\ pages}$$

HOUSE: important-page reachability = 1.00; priority-page orphan rate = 0%; each Tier-1 page has at least two useful incoming paths from distinct source pages. A sitemap-only URL remains an architectural orphan because a sitemap does not create navigation or contextual relationship.

For crawler graph indegree:

$$Orphan(v)=1[indegree_{G_C}(v)=0\land v\ne home]$$

Shortest depth is (d_H(v)=\min |path(home,v)|). HOUSE targets: primary conversion pages ≤2 clicks; major guides/categories ≤3; legitimate long-tail/archive ≤4. Also measure vertex-disjoint useful paths. Repeated footer links are not independent paths.


Internal PageRank Is a Diagnostic, Not Google's Current Formula
For the canonical graph:

$$PR=(1-d)\frac{\mathbf1}{N}+dAPR$$

The historical convention (d=0.85) comes from classic research; it is not a disclosed current Google parameter. Normalize within the site and calculate:

$$TargetNeed(v)=BusinessValue(v)\times SearchOpportunity(v)\times[1-NPR(v)]$$

Rank only legitimate link candidates:

$$ILP(u,v)=0.30SourceStrength+0.30TopicalFit+0.25UserUtility+0.15TargetNeed$$

HOUSE: ≥0.80 strong candidate; 0.65–0.79 editorial review; below 0.65 do not add for SEO alone. A score can prioritize a useful link; it cannot make an irrelevant link useful.


Hubs, Taxonomy and Canonical Fidelity
A hub must perform an overview, selector, comparison or navigation job—not merely pass “authority.”

$$H=0.30NavigationNeed+0.25ClusterCohesion+0.20Breadth+0.15UpdateUtility+0.10StandaloneValue$$

HOUSE: ≥0.70 create/retain; 0.50–0.69 validate; below 0.50 reject a thin hub. Require at least three independently useful children and 100% coverage of core spokes.

URL law: one content identity has one intended canonical URL. Use stable, readable identity; do not embed dates unless time defines the asset; do not mirror every filter or interface state; do not migrate stable URLs just to add keywords.

$$SitemapPurity=\frac{canonical,indexable,successful\ URLs}{submitted\ URLs}$$

$$CanonicalLinkFidelity=\frac{internal\ links\ directly\ to\ canonicals}{internal\ links\ into\ canonical\ clusters}$$

HOUSE targets: sitemap purity 100%; canonical-link fidelity ≥99.5%, and 100% for new templates.


Crawl Inventory and Facets
Discuss crawl budget only when scale, change rate or discovery constraints justify it. Google gives rough examples such as very large sites, rapidly changing sites or large “Discovered—currently not indexed” populations; these are not universal cutoffs.

$$CrawlWasteRate=\frac{redirect+error+soft404+duplicateParameter+noncanonical\ HTML\ requests}{all\ HTML\ URL\ requests}$$

HOUSE: <10% controlled; 10–20% investigate; >20% incident. Use server logs and do not label legitimate resources or 304 responses as waste.

An indexable facet must have demonstrated independent demand, a useful nonempty materially distinct set, a finite stable URL, a coherent canonical policy and manageable empty combinations. Otherwise retain the UI while preventing uncontrolled crawl/index inventory. Google's faceted-navigation guidance recommends controlling unnecessary URL spaces.


Cannibalization Requires Demonstrated Harm
Two pages ranking for related queries may be healthy. Cannibalization requires overlap, unstable/undesired page selection and measurable lost outcome.

$$QO_w(a,b)=\frac{\sum_q\min(w_{a,q},w_{b,q})}{\sum_q\max(w_{a,q},w_{b,q})}$$

$$Switch=\frac{dominant\ landing\ page\ changes}{T-1}$$

$$CR=0.35QO_w+0.25IntentSimilarity+0.20Switch+0.20OutcomePenalty$$

If no counterfactual exists for OutcomePenalty, mark it unknown—never substitute zero. HOUSE: (CR\ge0.70) and observed harm supports consolidation/differentiation; 0.50–0.69 investigate; below 0.50 likely healthy coverage.

Merge same-identity pages, preserve unique evidence, directly redirect obsolete URLs, and update links/sitemaps. Keep distinct jobs separate and clarify title, H1, opening answer and anchors. Removed content without a suitable replacement returns 404/410; do not redirect unrelated URLs to the homepage.


Architecture Health Cannot Average Away a Blocker
$$AHS=100(0.25Reachability+0.20CanonicalFidelity+0.15SitemapPurity+0.15DepthCompliance+0.15LinkValidity+0.10PathResilience)$$

HOUSE: ≥90 healthy; 80–89 improve; below 80 remediate. Display hard failures separately. No composite can hide an orphaned priority page, accidental noindex, wrong canonical, security failure or broken revenue path.

Information-architecture diagnostics


Metric

Formula

House trigger

What failure means

First action
Anchor clarity	descriptive internal anchors / audited internal anchors	< 90%	Links provide weak information scent and topical context	Rewrite ambiguous anchors in natural language
Cannibalization overlap	Jaccard(query set A, query set B) × intent similarity	Risk ≥ 0.70 plus demonstrated outcome harm	Two pages compete for the same job without differentiation	Differentiate intent or merge and redirect
Canonical agreement	URLs where declared canonical = engine-selected canonical / inspected duplicate URLs	< 95% in an audited duplicate/template cohort; critical disagreement always alerts	Signals conflict or duplicates are materially different	Align redirects, canonicals, links and sitemap URLs
Critical click depth	shortest-path edges from a persistent entry node	> 2 from home for primary conversion pages; > 1 from relevant hub	Users and crawlers face unnecessary traversal	Add a justified hub, navigation link or contextual shortcut
Internal-link concentration	Σ share(inlinksᵢ)² across target pages	> 0.25 within a peer set	Authority and discovery may be overconcentrated	Audit whether concentration matches business and topical priority
Orphan rate	indexable URLs with zero internal inlinks / indexable URLs	> 0% for priority pages or > 1% overall	The architecture does not reliably expose important nodes	Link from a relevant navigational or contextual parent
Reachability	reachable indexable URLs / intended indexable URLs	< 100% for intended important canonical pages	Some intended pages cannot be reached through crawlable links	Repair navigation/link generation before adding content
Sitemap indexation yield	indexed submitted canonical URLs / valid submitted canonical URLs	< 90% after a calibrated settling period; segment before diagnosis	Submission, quality, duplication or access issues need segmentation	Segment sitemap by template and inspect the lowest-yield group
Topical boundary leakage	cross-cluster contextual links / all contextual links	> 20% without user-task justification	Clusters may be unclear or navigation is indiscriminate	Retain useful bridges; remove templated noise

Evidence Engineering and Claim Graphs
A source list is not an evidence system. Every material sentence becomes an atomic, scoped claim with provenance, valid time, support/conflict edges and a review state.

The W3C PROV model distinguishes Entities, Activities and Agents. In this lawbook, claims, evidence snapshots and rule versions are Entities; extraction, review and testing are Activities; authors, publishers and reviewers are Agents. Publication time, observation time and valid time remain separate.


Mandatory Claim Atom
Store:

claim_id; canonical_claim_text; subject_entity_id; predicate; object/value/unit; claim_type; qualifiers; valid_from; valid_to; observed_at; verified_at; materiality; evidence_edges; status; owner.

Qualifiers include market, geography, audience, device, engine, surface, product/version and conditions. A sentence containing two independently falsifiable propositions becomes at least two claims. A source quoting another person's assertion proves that the assertion was made; it does not independently prove the assertion true.


Claim and Provenance Graph
Nodes: claims (C), evidence artifacts/spans (E), original sources/data producers (S), page/rule versions (V), and review/test activities (A).

Edges:

SUPPORTS(E,C)
CONTRADICTS(E,C)
QUALIFIES(E,C)
ASSERTED_BY(C,S)
DERIVED_FROM(E,E)
COPIED_FROM(S,S)
VALID_DURING(C,T)
SUPERSEDES(C,C)
USED_BY(C,V)
This graph prevents five rewrites of one press release—or five LLM summaries of one document—from appearing as five confirmations.


Independence and Effective Evidence
Different domains or owners are not automatically independent. Require different underlying data or independently executed methods, no citation chain, no distinctive shared error/wording, and timing that makes copying implausible.

Under an equal-correlation approximation:

$$n_{eff}=\frac{n}{1+(n-1)\bar\rho}$$

HOUSE: cluster by underlying origin and count the strongest direct item once within each cluster. Keep the suitability vector separate:

$$Q_{s,c}=(Directness,MethodTransparency,TopicRecord,ScopeMatch,Freshness,Independence)$$

Directness is question-specific. Google documentation is direct evidence of Google's stated policy; it is not automatically direct evidence of an effect size on your site.


Evidence Fusion and Confidence
Use Bayesian language only when priors and source likelihood ratios have been calibrated:

$$logit\,P(C=true|E)=logit\,P_0(C)+\sum_g\log BF_g$$

Otherwise use a signed HOUSE index, never a “probability true”:

$$EvidenceIndex_c=\sum_g sign_g\times Strength_g\times ScopeMatch_g\times Freshness_g$$

with one contribution per independent origin cluster.

Confidence remains a vector:

$$\mathbf C=(FactSupport,ScopeFit,Freshness,CausalID,Transferability,MeasurementQuality)$$

For a hard gate use (C_{min}=\min(\mathbf C)). For prioritization only, a documented weighted geometric mean is permitted:

$$C_{op}=\prod_k C_k^{w_k}$$

An average cannot hide one fatal weakness.


Contradiction Detection
Atomize and normalize subject, predicate, object and unit.
Align qualifiers and valid-time intervals.
Classify the pair as entailment, contradiction, qualification, temporal supersession, scope mismatch or incomparable.
Require same subject/predicate, overlapping scope/time, comparable values and mutual exclusivity for a true contradiction.
Score:
$$ConflictSeverity=Materiality\times ScopeOverlap\times TimeOverlap\times Exclusivity\times\min(Q_i,Q_j)$$

HOUSE: severity ≥0.60 requires human resolution. Any unresolved material legal, financial, medical, safety or compliance conflict blocks publication. “2024 price (X)” and “2025 price (Y)” are temporal change, not contradiction. Missing from an open dataset is not contradiction unless completeness is established.


Evidence Coverage and Publish Gates
$$WeightedCoverage=\frac{\sum_i materiality_i\,1[adequately\ supported_i]}{\sum_i materiality_i}$$

HOUSE

Critical claim: current primary/official evidence when available, otherwise at least two strong independent origins; (C_{min}\ge0.90); no unresolved material conflict.
Important claim: (C_{min}\ge0.80) and one strong direct source or two moderate independent origins.
Supporting claim: (C_{min}\ge0.65), otherwise label estimate/hypothesis.
Publish: every critical claim passes, weighted coverage ≥0.95, provenance completeness 100%.
Provisional: critical claims pass and coverage 0.80–0.949 with gaps visibly labeled.
Hold: any critical claim is unsupported, expired or blocked.
These are internal risk tolerances, not scientific constants.


Factual Decay and Revalidation Priority
$$Freshness(age;h)=2^{-age/h}$$

$$P_{stale}=1-2^{-age/h}$$

$$ReviewPriority=\frac{Materiality\times Exposure\times DecisionSensitivity\times P_{stale}\times(1+ConflictSeverity)}{ReviewCost}$$

Default HOUSE half-lives: volatile search UI/features/prices/current roles 30 days; platform docs/APIs and market statistics 60–90; internal coefficients 90 or earlier on drift; stable standards/methods 365 plus event triggers. Legal/medical/financial operational claims must be checked at point of use. Passing a review date means “needs review,” not “false.”


End-to-End Evidence Algorithm
Atomize → scope → retrieve primary evidence → snapshot the supporting span and metadata → build provenance edges → cluster dependent origins → classify support/conflict → resolve material contradictions → compute confidence vector and coverage → apply publish gates → attach valid time, half-life and triggers → publish an immutable version → monitor source changes and prediction error → revalidate or supersede.

A citation URL alone is insufficient because pages change. Store retrieved metadata and a short evidence fingerprint/span within licensing and copyright constraints.

Evidence grades for the lawbook


Grade

What qualifies

Independence rule

Permitted use

Hard rule
A — causal/direct	Randomized test, strong quasi-experiment, direct system output or authoritative specification	Methods and observations must be inspectable	Adopt a scoped law or make a high-stakes decision	State population, treatment, outcome and uncertainty
B — strong observational	Repeated measurements, official documentation, multiple-site panel or convergent primary datasets	Collapse copies that share one origin	Default operating rule with monitoring	Do not convert association into causation
C — corroborated practice	Independent practitioner cases with comparable conditions and transparent receipts	At least two genuinely independent origins	Prior and experiment candidate	Retest before large irreversible spend
D — single observation	One case, one platform post, one SERP or one before/after without a control	Unknown or single origin	Hypothesis only	Never publish as a universal ranking law
E — opinion or hearsay	Unverifiable assertion, recycled consensus or unspecified data	None demonstrated	Question generator only	Exclude from decision score
H — house rule	Explicit governance threshold, weight or rubric chosen for consistency	Not an empirical engine claim	Operate repeatably and trigger review	Label HOUSE RULE and calibrate against outcomes

Click, Title, Snippet and Choice Science
Search Console defines (CTR=clicks/impressions), but average position is the topmost property position averaged over impressions and behaves differently across surfaces. AI Overview links can share one reported position. Query rows omit anonymized queries. Therefore raw CTR is not a pure measure of relevance, title quality or satisfaction.

Google automatically constructs title links from multiple signals and may rewrite them. Snippets are query-dependent and primarily generated from page content, sometimes using the meta description. Google specifies no fixed title or description character limit. The actionable rules are descriptive, concise, specific, non-boilerplate language and faithful landing-page delivery—not pixel superstition. See title-link guidance, snippet guidance and Search Console metrics.


Separate Examination From Choice
$$P(click_j)=P(examine_j|position,device,surface)\times P(choose_j|examined,title,snippet,brand,query,competitors)$$

A useful choice utility is:

$$U_j=b_1TaskCue+b_2Value+b_3Specificity+b_4Credibility+b_5Familiarity-b_6Effort-b_7Risk$$

$$P(choose\ j|J)=\frac{e^{U_j}}{\sum_{k\in J}e^{U_k}}$$

Do not hard-code the (b) coefficients as universal psychology. Estimate them by query class from first-party experiments or blinded pairwise choices. Position, domain familiarity and presentation create click bias; clicks are not unconfounded relevance judgments.


Best CTR Normalization Method
Build the baseline from your own history. Model position/surface, device, country, brand/nonbrand, intent, page type, SERP feature and time:

$$logit\,P(click_i)=\beta_0+f(position_i)+\beta_{device}+\beta_{brand}+\beta_{surface}+\beta_{intent}+\beta_{country}+\beta_{time}+u_{query}+u_{page}$$

The page/title residual is context-adjusted choice performance. A simpler form is:

$$ExpectedClicks=\sum_s Impressions_s\times BaselineCTR_s$$

$$StandardizedClickRatio=ObservedClicks/ExpectedClicks$$

Smooth sparse rates with a segment-informed beta prior:

$$\tilde p=\frac{clicks+\alpha}{impressions+\alpha+\beta}$$

Report Wilson/binomial uncertainty. Benchmark in order: same cohort before change; matched unaffected pages; own hierarchical baseline; blinded comparison with the live top comparable choices; public CTR curves only as a reasonableness check.


Title and Snippet Information-Scent Audit
For one user job, score 0–1:

$$Scent=100(0.25Task+0.15Specificity+0.15Value+0.15Credibility+0.10Differentiation+0.10Fluency+0.10Consistency)-Penalties$$

HOUSE penalties: unsupported/clickbait promise −25; intent ambiguity −20; stuffing/boilerplate −15; crucial words likely lost on narrow displays −10.

Hard gate:

$$PromiseDelivery=\frac{weighted\ promises\ delivered}{weighted\ promises\ made}$$

Every critical promise must equal 1.00. In a five-second blind test, show a realistic result mock to target users and ask what they would choose and expect. HOUSE pass: at least 80% correctly identify the page's job; systematic false expectation fails regardless of CTR.

Pairwise choice can use Bradley–Terry:

$$P(A>B)=\frac{e^{\theta_A}}{e^{\theta_A}+e^{\theta_B}}$$

HOUSE acceptance: preference ≥60% and 95% lower bound >50%, plus promise-delivery gate.


Causal Title/Description Testing
The experimental unit is usually a page or template cluster, because engines choose ranking and title rendering. Match test/control on prior clicks, impressions, position distribution, intent, device, seasonality and page type.

$$DiD=[logit(CTR_{T,post})-logit(CTR_{T,pre})]-[logit(CTR_{C,post})-logit(CTR_{C,pre})]$$

Require plausible parallel pre-trends. Measure clicks, qualified actions per impression, conversion, position/impressions, title-rewrite rate and index/canonical guardrails. Assignment estimates intent-to-treat when title rewriting occurs.

Pre-register the primary metric, minimum meaningful effect, power/sample, stop rule and guardrails. HOUSE: adopt when the effect clears the meaningful threshold with ≥0.95 probability or an adjusted 95% interval above zero; reject for material harm; declare equivalence only inside the predeclared equivalence band; otherwise inconclusive. Control false discoveries across many variants and do not repeatedly peek with ordinary fixed-horizon p-values.


Anti-Clickbait Law
$$QualifiedActionPerImpression=qualified\ outcomes/impressions$$

$$ContributionPerImpression=incremental\ contribution\ margin/impressions$$

CTR is a choice metric—not truth, satisfaction, business value or a proven ranking factor. A title that increases CTR while reducing promise fidelity, qualified action or contribution per impression is a loss.

Click and choice model components


Component

Measurement

Major bias

Best control

Decision rule
Brand prior	Branded demand, known-user split or recognition survey	Familiar domains receive trust independent of snippet quality	Segment brand/nonbrand and new/returning users	Treat brand as a covariate, not copy performance
Copy experiment	Incremental clicks or value under a controlled title/snippet policy	Ranking, query mix and seasonality change during test	Randomized page clusters or matched controls	Require effect, interval, guardrails and rollback rule
Examination probability	Chance the result was noticed given position, layout and device	Position and SERP-feature bias	Randomized or stable matched-position comparisons	Do not blame copy before controlling visibility
Information scent	Cold-reviewer prediction of destination from title/snippet	Reviewer familiarity with the brand/topic	Blind task-based tests with target-audience reviewers	The first words should name the object or job
Intent promise	Rubric score for query-task, audience, format and outcome match	Analyst hindsight	Pre-register rubric before viewing CTR	Reject clever copy that misstates the page
Landing promise kept	Qualified continuation, task completion or short-click rate	Analytics loss and task-specific dwell time	Use explicit downstream events and surveys	A higher CTR that lowers qualified value is a loss
Normalized CTR	observed CTR / expected CTR for position × device × result type	Expected curve can drift	Rolling cohort baseline with confidence interval	Investigate sustained residuals, not raw rank-wide averages
Rich-result footprint	Pixels, enhancements and feature presence	Layout changes alter attention and click opportunity	Stratify by search appearance	Compare like result types

Conversion Economics, Attribution and Zero-Click Value
Attributed means a reporting model assigned credit. Incremental means the outcome would not have occurred without the intervention. Attribution is not causality.

Google Analytics states that attribution settings, eligible channels, scopes and lookback windows change credit. Attribution Paths includes only paths ending in a key event and can show initiating, assisting and closing touchpoints. Every reported attribution number must name model, scope and lookback. See GA attribution settings and Attribution Paths.


The Economic Unit Is Contribution
$$Contribution=Revenue-variable\ fulfillment-refunds-commissions-payment\ fees-incremental\ service$$

For leads:

$$LeadEV=P(qualified)P(close|qualified)ExpectedCustomerContributionLTV-incremental\ sales/service\ cost$$

$$LTV=\sum_t\frac{Survival(t)\times ExpectedMargin_t}{(1+r)^t}-onboarding/service\ costs$$

Then estimate the counterfactual first:

$$IncrementalContribution=Y_{observed}-Y_{counterfactual}$$

$$NPV=\sum_t\frac{E[IncrementalContribution_t]}{(1+r)^t}-Build-Maintenance-Experiment-ExpectedRiskLoss$$

Payback is the first period when cumulative discounted incremental contribution exceeds cumulative cost. SEO incremental acquisition cost divides total SEO cost by incremental, not attributed, new customers.


Four-Column Attribution Law
For every channel/page/campaign show separately:

observed last/session-click value;
model-assigned fractional value, with model and lookback;
assisted exposure/path count, with overlap disclosed;
experimentally estimated incremental value, with design and interval.
Never add assisted conversions to last-click conversions; one conversion can exist in both lenses. A Markov removal effect or Shapley allocation fairly describes a chosen path model but does not create causality from observational paths. Do not add direct, assisted and zero-click “value” if they refer to the same customer.


Evidence Ladder for Incrementality
Preferred order: randomized page/template/geo holdout; randomized or matched page-cluster experiment; synthetic control/Bayesian structural time series; matched difference-in-differences; interrupted time series with controls; observational attribution/path model.

$$ATT=(Y_{T,post}-Y_{T,pre})-(Y_{C,post}-Y_{C,pre})$$

Synthetic control:

$$Effect_t=Y_{treated,t}-\sum_jw_jY_{control,j,t}$$

Causal interpretation requires stable measurement, credible controls, pre-period fit/trends, no ignored coincident intervention, uncertainty and placebo checks. References include Google geo experiments, synthetic control and Bayesian structural time series.


Zero-Click Value Law
An organic or AI impression is not verified attention, a customer or revenue. Never assign an arbitrary dollar CPM to search/AI visibility.

Track citation/mention rate on a frozen panel, accuracy, branded demand, direct/return traffic, local calls/directions, recall and qualified pipeline as separate diagnostics. Monetize only incremental downstream contribution measured with treated and matched/control cohorts.

$$Lift_{brand}=(Brand_T^{post}-Brand_T^{pre})-(Brand_C^{post}-Brand_C^{pre})$$

Do not multiply impressions by a guessed value. Until downstream incrementality is measured, label it unmonetized visibility.


Pre-Build and Scale Decision
$$EV_{page}=P(index)P(surface|index)\sum_q[Impressions_q\times IncrementalCTR_q\times CVR_q\times Contribution_q]+MeasuredOptions-Cost-Risk$$

Run bootstrap or posterior simulations.

HOUSE: reversible standard investment scales if (P(NPV>0)\ge0.90), expected NPV is positive and downside fits risk limits. High-cost, brand-sensitive, YMYL or irreversible work requires ≥0.95 and no safety/compliance guardrail failure. Test when expected NPV is positive but uncertainty crosses zero and value of information exceeds test cost. Defer when expected NPV is nonpositive or payback exceeds the business limit.

Conversion and economic-value measures


Metric

Formula

Required inputs

Main risk

Use
Assisted value	counterfactual conversion probability with touchpoint − without touchpoint	User paths, exposure and a defensible attribution/causal design	Last-click or arbitrary fractional credit	Research and zero-click journeys
Authority option value	discounted expected future margin from lower launch friction and reusable demand capture	Matched launch history, survival horizon and discount rate	Double-counting future traffic already in forecasts	Long-lived owned assets
Experiment value of information	expected loss avoided after test − test cost	Decision stakes, uncertainty, effect prior and test cost	Testing trivial decisions	Choose whether to test, act or wait
Incremental contribution margin	incremental orders × (revenue − variable costs − service costs)	Causal lift, price, refunds, COGS and variable fulfillment	Using attributed instead of incremental orders	Primary commercial outcome
Payback period	acquisition/build cost / monthly incremental contribution margin	Fully loaded cost and incremental monthly margin	Ignoring maintenance and decay	Capital allocation and kill rules
Qualified lead value	P(qualified) × P(close|qualified) × expected contribution margin	Lead stage rates and margin by segment	Averages hide channel/intent quality	B2B content and query valuation
Risk-adjusted expected value	Σ P(outcomeᵢ)×valueᵢ − cost − risk penalty	Outcome scenarios, probabilities, costs and downside	False precision in probability estimates	Portfolio prioritization
Zero-click value	Δ branded demand × downstream conversion rate × margin + measured offline action	Matched geos/time series, brand demand and offline outcomes	Confounding by other campaigns	AI answers, snippets and local visibility

Economic Targeting & Intent Arbitrage
This is a permanent strategy system, not merely a testing idea. It allocates acquisition effort from downstream economics: user intent, directional demand, time, predicted job value, fulfillment capacity and risk.

The general form applies to moving lanes, freight routes, travel markets, local services, insurance segments and any business where geography or operational capacity changes unit economics. Moving is the worked example.

The governing rule is:

$$Acquire\ demand\ where\ Expected\ Incremental\ Contribution\ is\ highest—not\ where\ traffic,\ tickets\ or\ leads\ are\ cheapest.$$


The Lane Is the Decision Unit
For origin (o), destination (d), time (t), intent stage (g) and acquisition surface (s):

$$E[V_{o,d,t,g,s}]=P(Qualified|click)P(Book|Qualified)P(CarrierAccept|Book)P(Service|Accept)M_{o,d,t}-Cost_s-Risk$$

Where completed-job contribution is:

$$M=CustomerRevenue-CarrierCost-Deadhead-Refunds-Commissions-PaymentFees-VariableOperations-ClaimsReserve$$

Gross ticket is not value. A large job can be inferior when carrier cost, deadhead, cancellation, service and claims risk consume its revenue.


Cost Backward From Contribution
Let:

(Q=P(QualifiedLead|Click))
(B=P(Book|QualifiedLead))
(A=P(CarrierAccept|Book))
(S=P(Service|Accepted))
(M=) contribution per serviced job before acquisition
(R=) required incremental contribution return
Then:

$$MaxCPL=\frac{BASM}{R}$$

$$MaxCPC=\frac{QBASM}{R}$$

A lane with a $20 CPC can be more profitable than one with a $5 CPC. The only valid comparison is expected incremental contribution after fulfillment.

Illustrative HOUSE example: if (B=0.15), (A=0.90), (S=0.80), (M=\$1,500) and (R=2), maximum CPL is $81. If 25% of clicks become qualified leads, maximum CPC is $20.25. Replace every input with observed lane-specific distributions before bidding.

Lane-level cost-backout formulas


Decision

Formula

Unit

Use

Caveat
Capacity-adjusted margin	M_capacity = revenue − carrier offer − repositioning/deadhead − service risk − other variable costs	Potential serviced job	Translate live carrier conditions into marketing headroom	An empty truck far from origin creates cost, not automatic value
Completed-job contribution	M = customer revenue − carrier cost − deadhead − refunds − commissions − payment fees − variable operations − claims reserve	Serviced job	True value available to fund acquisition	Do not substitute gross ticket or deposit
Expected lane profit per click	E[Profit_click] = Q × B × A × S × M − CPC	Ad click	Compare lanes on economics rather than CPC	Report an uncertainty range for every probability and M
Form-policy value per visitor	E[V_form] = P(qualified|visitor) × B × A × S × M − acquisition and abandonment opportunity cost	Site visitor	Decide whether added form friction improves total economics	A higher lead close rate can coexist with lower total profit
Maximum booked-job CPA	MaxCPA_book = A × S × M / R	Booked job	Adjust for carrier acceptance A and service completion S	Avoid double-counting if M already includes failed-booking losses
Maximum CPC	MaxCPC = Q × B × A × S × M / R	Ad click	Search or paid-social bid ceiling	Q is qualified-lead probability per click for that lane and cohort
Maximum qualified-lead CPL	MaxCPL = B × A × S × M / R	Qualified lead	Lead-buying and lane campaign ceiling	B is booked probability conditional on the same qualified definition
Maximum serviced-job CPA	MaxCPA_service = M / R	Incremental serviced job	Absolute media ceiling at target contribution return R	Requires incremental, not attributed, jobs
Maximum spend per abandoner	MaxSpend_user = ΔB × A × S × M / R	Eligible non-booking form user	Retargeting budget ceiling	ΔB must come from a holdout or defensible counterfactual
Profit per 1,000 eligible impressions	E[Profit_1k] = 1000 × CTR × Q × B × A × S × M − media cost	1,000 eligible impressions	Compare prospecting audiences and surfaces	Eligibility, reach and viewability differ by surface

Ten Strategies Belong to the Same Family
The system extends beyond form retargeting and corridor bidding. It includes destination-shadow audiences, capacity and time arbitrage, predicted job value, two-sided optimization, negative-lane suppression and a learning loop.

They share one law: change acquisition pressure when expected downstream contribution changes. They remain separate campaigns or decision modules so one strategy's performance cannot hide another's failure.

Economic targeting strategy family


Strategy

Trigger

Operating action

Value mechanism

Primary measure

Main failure mode
Carrier-capacity arbitrage	Quality carrier capacity is already near the origin and wants the destination	Raise acquisition ceiling for the temporarily advantaged lane	Higher acceptance and lower fulfillment cost	Capacity-adjusted completed-job margin	Calling expensive deadhead a backhaul advantage
Corridor domination	One origin–destination lane has attractive demand and contribution economics	Concentrate PPC, SEO, content, reviews and operational proof on that lane	Increases learning density, relevance and operational specialization	Incremental contribution per click and lane share	Choosing volume or ticket instead of contribution
Destination-first content sequence	The mover begins with relocation questions rather than vendor queries	Lead with destination utility, then route estimate, then trust and booking proof	Converts early research into owned first-party intent	Incremental progression from destination content to qualified lane action	Thin destination content that does not solve the research job
Destination-shadow audience	Origin-market consumers research a probable destination before mover keywords	Target destination research intent while preserving origin-location qualification	Reaches demand earlier and often more cheaply	Incremental qualified lane leads per 1,000 eligible users	Targeting destination residents or generic destination interest
Intent-stage recovery	Known visitor progresses through a valuable form but does not book	Sequence creative by the last completed stage and unresolved objection	Converts already-acquired high-information demand	Incremental serviced-job contribution per eligible abandoner	Crediting natural return conversions to ads
Job-value prediction	Inventory, services, access and timing reveal expected job economics	Bid and prioritize from predicted contribution, not raw lead probability	Spends more on leads with higher expected net value	Calibration and realized contribution by predicted-value decile	Optimizing ticket while ignoring refunds, cost and service risk
Lane learning loop	New lead, booking, service, carrier and margin outcomes arrive	Update lane priors, bid ceilings, content and suppression rules	Compounds local evidence into lower uncertainty	Forecast calibration, regret avoided and contribution lift	Overfitting low-volume lanes or losing historical versions
Negative-lane suppression	A lane repeatedly shows weak acceptance, claims, cancellations or margin	Cap or stop acquisition despite apparently cheap leads	Prevents low-CPL traffic from destroying downstream economics	Avoided negative contribution and failure rate	Continuing because top-of-funnel metrics look efficient
Time-window arbitrage	Demand, close rate, capacity or price changes by date/season/day	Recalculate bids and creative by move window	Buys demand when unit economics are temporarily favorable	Contribution per eligible impression by time cohort	Overreacting to sparse or preliminary data
Two-sided optimization	Consumer acquisition and carrier payout jointly determine service probability and margin	Optimize customer bid ceiling and carrier offer together	Finds the profitable clearing point between demand and capacity	Expected serviced-job contribution under SLA constraints	Optimizing marketing and procurement in isolation

Intent-Stage Recovery: High Friction Reveals, but Does Not Create, Intent
Completing difficult form steps reveals information investment and friction tolerance. It does not prove that adding friction caused valuable intent. Optimize the entire visitor economics:

$$E[V_{form}]=P(Qualified|Visitor)\times B\times A\times S\times M-AbandonmentOpportunityCost$$

A high-friction form wins only when total contribution per visitor improves—not merely when the remaining leads show a higher close rate.

Record meaningful progress before submission: valid route, move window, inventory, services/access, estimate view and binder start. Build monotonic stage cohorts first; fit a calibrated booking/value model only after enough outcomes exist. Never send raw addresses, payment data or unapproved personal information into advertising audiences.

Intent-stage recovery sequence


Stage

Observed evidence

Permitted inference

Creative job

Primary action

Exclude when
1. Destination curiosity	Relocation, neighborhood, school, utility or cost-of-living content	Possible destination interest; mover status unconfirmed	Prove useful destination knowledge and invite route qualification	Route guide or lightweight estimator	Current origin or move intent cannot be qualified after repeated exposure
2. Route declared	Valid origin and destination entered	Directional move interest	Show route-specific expertise, timing and process	Save route and add move window	Route is unserviceable or suppressed
3. Move window declared	Move date or range entered	Higher temporal intent	Explain availability, flexibility and next planning step	Inventory or consultation	Date is invalid, too distant for policy or already passed
4. Inventory started	Rooms/items, packing or access conditions entered	High information investment and emerging job value	Reduce effort and preserve progress	Complete inventory and receive estimate	Duplicate, fraudulent or clearly unqualified
5. Estimate viewed	Price/range and terms were displayed	Offer evaluation; objection unknown	Resolve price, trust, carrier, timing and scope uncertainty	Verify details or start booking	Estimate is stale, materially wrong or needs human correction
6. Binder started	Payment/booking workflow initiated but not completed	Very high transactional intent	Recover the precise blocker with proof and assistance	Resume secure booking or request help	Booked, opted out, invalid payment risk, canceled or service unavailable
7. Booked not serviced	Booking exists and service is pending	Customer, not prospect	Set expectations and reduce cancellation/service failure	Inventory verification, QA and fulfillment	Never place in acquisition retargeting; use customer communications

Retargeting Is a Recovery Engine
For an eligible non-booking user:

$$MaxSpend_{user}=\frac{\Delta P(Book)\times A\times S\times M}{R}$$

The incremental lift (Delta P(Book)) must come from a randomized holdout or credible counterfactual. Exclude booked, opted-out, invalid, canceled and unserviceable users immediately.

Match creative to the last unresolved job:

destination curiosity → useful route qualification;
route/date declared → timing and route proof;
inventory started → preserve progress and reduce effort;
estimate viewed → resolve price, scope and trust;
binder started → recover the exact transaction blocker;
booked → leave acquisition media and enter customer communications.
Google supports website data segments and YouTube re-engagement, subject to eligibility and personalized-advertising rules. See first-party data segments and video targeting.


Destination-Shadow Audiences: Target Intent, Not Merely the Destination Map
People may research neighborhoods, schools, utilities, DMV rules, housing and cost of living before searching for a mover. That creates a destination-shadow audience.

The correct paid design is usually:

$$OriginPresence\cap DestinationResearchIntent\cap PlausibleMoveWindow$$

It is not simply “target Dallas.” Destination geography alone mainly reaches people in or interested in Dallas and cannot establish direction. “Long-distance movers Dallas” is also ambiguous.

For video/Demand Gen, combine the origin qualification with destination-oriented custom-search themes and relocation creative. Google documents custom segments based on relevant keywords/search behavior and warns that location targeting is best-effort rather than perfectly accurate. See custom segments and location targeting.


Corridor Domination: Concentration Can Beat Broad Reach
A corridor campaign is justified when one origin–destination pair has enough qualified demand, contribution, carrier acceptance and operational reliability.

Concentrate:

origin-qualified route PPC;
one genuinely useful route landing page;
destination research content;
route-specific pricing drivers and service expectations;
first-party route statistics;
reviews and proof from that lane;
carrier relationships and availability;
retargeting and sales scripts.
This creates a learning-density advantage: more observations for the same lane reduce pricing, conversion and fulfillment uncertainty.

For SEO, route pages must solve a distinct job and contain real route-specific value. Mass-produced city-pair doorway pages are not corridor domination; they are inventory and policy risk.


Carrier Capacity and Backhaul Economics
A backhaul advantage exists when suitable capacity is already near the origin and wants the destination. A truck far from the origin that must drive empty creates deadhead cost.

$$M_{capacity}=Revenue-CarrierOffer-Repositioning/Deadhead-ServiceRisk-OtherVariableCost$$

Update acquisition ceilings when live capacity changes:

$$MaxCPL_{o,d,t}=\frac{B_{o,d,t}A_{o,d,t}S_{o,d,t}M_{o,d,t}}{R}$$

Raise pressure only when acceptance, service probability or margin genuinely improves. A carrier's willingness to travel for a large job does not make the customer ticket profitable automatically.


Time, Job Value and Two-Sided Optimization
Time-window arbitrage: recompute economics by season, move date, weekday, capacity and demand. Do not use one annual CPL target.

Job-value prediction: estimate contribution—not ticket—from inventory, distance, packing, stairs, elevators, long carry, storage, stops, specialty items, dates and service risk. Audit predicted-value deciles against realized contribution and do not let protected or inappropriate personal attributes enter the model.

Two-sided optimization: marketing bid and carrier offer jointly determine the clearing probability.

$$\max_{b,p}\ P(Lead|b)P(Book)P(Accept|p)P(Service)\times[Revenue-AdCost(b)-CarrierCost(p)-Risk]$$

subject to service, compliance, cancellation and margin guardrails. Marketing cannot optimize cheap leads while operations absorbs expensive failures.


Negative-Lane Suppression Is as Important as Growth
Create hard stops when a lane shows:

unserviceable origin/destination conditions;
low quality-carrier acceptance;
excessive deadhead;
high cancellation, refund, complaint or claim rates;
negative contribution after variable operations;
insufficient evidence for a safe bid;
compliance or customer-experience risk.
A cheap CPL never overrides negative serviced-job economics. Preserve suppressed lanes and reasons as negative knowledge so automated bidding cannot rediscover the same loss repeatedly.


Destination-First SEO and Paid Sequence
Use three distinct assets:

Relocation utility: destination questions such as neighborhoods, costs, logistics and timing.
Directional route decision: origin → destination planning, estimate variables, schedule and operational proof.
Transaction and trust: inventory, quote, carrier process, verification, binder and customer support.
Measure progression between assets, not just page traffic. Destination content earns the right to ask for route information; the route tool converts ambiguity into first-party intent; recovery media addresses the remaining blocker.

Do not force one page to perform all three jobs or assume destination content visitors are movers until they provide directional evidence.


The Lane Learning Loop
For every impression, click, form stage, qualified lead, booking, carrier response, service outcome, refund/claim and realized contribution:

preserve the lane, time, surface, creative and rule version;
update (Q,B,A,S,M) with uncertainty;
compare forecast to realized outcome;
recalibrate bid ceilings and suppression;
update route content from verified questions and operational evidence;
retain prior models and decisions for audit.
Sparse lanes should borrow carefully from comparable corridors using hierarchical priors, then move toward their own data as observations accumulate. Never let one early high-ticket job set a lane policy.


What Is Law, What Is HOUSE, and What Must Be Tested
Permanent laws

Back out cost from incremental contribution.
Separate qualified lead, booking, acceptance, service and margin.
Treat origin, destination and direction as different variables.
Treat deadhead as cost and genuine backhaul as capacity advantage.
Exclude converted/unserviceable users and respect audience/privacy rules.
Preserve campaign, model and decision versions.
HOUSE starting policies

Target-return requirement.
Initial lane suppression thresholds.
Cohort definitions and model priors.
Creative sequence and review cadence.
Must be measured or tested

Incremental retargeting lift.
Form-friction effect on total contribution per visitor.
Destination-shadow audience precision.
Corridor versus broad-market incrementality.
Lane-specific conversion and fulfillment probabilities.
The effect of each bid or carrier-payout change.
Testing calibrates the coefficients. It does not reduce the framework to “only a test.”


Economic Targeting Operating Algorithm
Define the directional lane, time window and serviceable scope.
Calculate completed-job contribution after every variable cost and risk reserve.
Estimate (Q,B,A,S,M) as distributions with named cohorts.
Apply compliance, quality and service hard gates.
Back out maximum CPL/CPC and retargeting spend.
Select one strategy module; keep corridor, destination, recovery and capacity tests separate.
Import qualified, booked, accepted, serviced and contribution outcomes—not one generic “conversion.”
Run an incrementality design where natural return or channel overlap is material.
Scale only when realized incremental contribution clears the required return and guardrails.
Update the lane model, content, creative and suppression state from completed outcomes.

Advanced Market, Network and Control Economics
The first economic-targeting layer optimizes a user, lane and campaign. This layer optimizes the wider system: direction, bundled jobs, changing lead value, quote uncertainty, carrier quality, price, capacity, recovery, routing and data integrity.

Keep three functions separate:

Value creation: better bundles, flexibility, capacity, price, recovery and partnerships.
Value measurement: direction-specific economics, incrementality, uncertainty and regret.
Value protection: hard constraints, quality adjustment, throttling and adversarial-data controls.
Every formula below is a HOUSE decision model, not a reconstruction of an advertising platform or search ranking algorithm. Calibrate it on realized, contribution-level outcomes and preserve the rule version used for each decision.

Advanced market and network strategy registry


Strategy

Trigger

Operating decision

Governing metric

Main risk
Adversarial-data protection	Duplicate, fraudulent, competitor, bot or manipulated behavior enters the funnel	Quarantine suspicious events from bidding and model training	Expected contamination loss and false-positive cost	Blocking legitimate customers or learning from poisoned labels
Auction arbitrage	Equivalent-quality demand costs differ by hour, device, query or placement	Shift bids toward cohorts with positive contribution residuals	Incremental contribution per eligible impression after mix adjustment	Mistaking cheap low-quality inventory for efficiency
Bidirectional lane economics	Opposite directions show different demand, carrier supply, deadhead or margins	Model and bid o→d and d→o as separate products	Direction-specific incremental contribution per eligible click	Averaging both directions into a fictitious lane
Cancellation and reschedule recovery	A booked job is at risk but may remain serviceable	Compare recovery value with replacement acquisition and service risk	Incremental retained contribution per eligible at-risk booking	Using pressure or incentives when cancellation is the right outcome
Capacity-reservation value	Future quality capacity may be scarce during a profitable window	Reserve only when avoided shortage and marketing headroom exceed cost	Expected avoided shortage loss plus new contribution minus reservation cost	Paying for unused or nonbinding capacity
Carrier-quality adjustment	Carriers differ in claims, cancellation, delay and support burden	Compare quality-adjusted fulfillment cost, not linehaul price	Expected total carrier cost including failure loss	Choosing a low quote that externalizes customer harm
Competitive-abandonment capture	Prospects continue researching after another provider's estimate or failed experience	Address verifiable switching objections without deceptive competitor claims	Incremental serviced-job contribution from switching-intent cohorts	Unverifiable comparison, trademark/policy violations or predatory messaging
Constraint-aware scaling	Marketing demand approaches QA, verification, sales, carrier or support capacity	Apply shadow prices and automatic caps before service degrades	Marginal contribution after congestion and SLA failure costs	Scaling lead volume beyond the operating system
Cross-channel cannibalization control	Search, SEO, video, direct and retargeting touch the same prospective customer	Allocate budget from total incremental lift, not channel-assigned credit	Incremental total contribution with versus without the channel	Paying to reclaim a booking that would have occurred anyway
Exploration–exploitation policy	Known profitable lanes compete with uncertain potentially valuable lanes	Reserve a controlled learning budget and exploit proven economics separately	Cumulative contribution plus value of information; regret	Bandit optimization before reliable delayed outcomes exist
Lead-decay bidding	Booking probability and capacity value change as the move date approaches	Reprice the lead at every meaningful time state	Remaining expected contribution conditional on lead age and move window	Treating all old leads as worthless or all urgent leads as valuable
Market-option value	Entering a corridor creates reusable reviews, data, content and carrier relationships	Treat uncertain future advantage as an explicit option scenario	Risk-adjusted discounted future contribution not already in base forecast	Booking speculative authority as current revenue
Multi-job load consolidation	Compatible jobs share geography, date window, equipment and capacity	Value the feasible bundle, not each job in isolation	Incremental bundle contribution after coordination and service risk	Operational fragility or prohibited/unsafe overcommitment
Offer and price elasticity	Deposit, price, payment terms or guarantee can be varied lawfully	Optimize contribution across price and conversion, not close rate alone	Marginal contribution after price-induced demand and cancellation changes	Confounding pricing with lead mix or deceptive offer framing
Quote-confidence adjustment	Inventory, access, date, route or service inputs are incomplete or unstable	Discount the bid ceiling by economic uncertainty and correction risk	Lower-bound or risk-adjusted expected contribution	Using model confidence as proof that the quote is accurate
18 results
Page 1 of 2



Directional Asymmetry: A→B Is Not B→A
Los Angeles → Dallas and Dallas → Los Angeles are different products. They can have different demand, customer urgency, job size, carrier appetite, deadhead, seasonality, service risk and contribution.

$$\Delta V_{o,d}=E[V(o\rightarrow d)]-E[V(d\rightarrow o)]$$

HOUSE law: never pool opposite directions until the evidence supports exchangeability. Maintain separate directional estimates for impressions, qualification, booking, carrier acceptance, completion, variable cost, claims and realized contribution. A combined corridor total may be used for portfolio reporting, but it must not erase direction when setting bids, prices, carrier offers or suppression.

The same law applies to nearby metros and “similar” routes. Geographic resemblance is not economic equivalence.


Multi-Job Load Consolidation and Schedule-Flexibility Arbitrage
Two jobs can be worth more together when shared line-haul, equipment or deadhead lowers total cost:

$$Synergy(J)=M(\text{feasible bundle }J)-\sum_{j\in J}M(\text{stand-alone job }j)$$

A bundle is feasible only if it passes cube/weight, equipment, pickup and delivery windows, driver hours, route, regulatory, customer-promise and service-quality constraints. Never count “synergy” created by late delivery, hidden subcontracting or a broken promise.

A customer's genuine flexibility also has option value:

$$FOV=\max_{w\in W}E[M\mid w]-E[M\mid \text{fixed requested window}]$$

Ask for flexibility explicitly, explain the tradeoff, record consent and share value with the customer when appropriate. Flexibility is an option the customer grants; it is not permission to move dates unilaterally.


Lead Decay and Quote-Confidence Adjustment
A lead's value changes as its state and time-to-move change:

$$V(\tau)=P(Book\mid state,\tau)\,P(Accept)\,P(Service)\,M-\text{remaining follow-up cost}$$

Do not assume simple exponential decay. Value may rise briefly as a move becomes real, then collapse after the buying window closes. Estimate a survival or hazard curve by intent state, lane, move-date certainty, contactability and lead source. Update follow-up priority and bid value from the current state—not the original form submission.

Uncertain job inputs require a risk-adjusted acquisition ceiling:

$$BidCeiling=\frac{Quantile_{\alpha}(Contribution\mid known\ inputs)}{RequiredReturn}$$

Use a conservative lower-tail contribution estimate when inventory, access, dates or fulfillment are uncertain. High uncertainty should trigger inventory verification, a bounded bid or a hold—not false precision. Model confidence is not evidence that the quote is accurate.


Carrier-Quality Adjustment
The cheapest quoted carrier is not necessarily the lowest-cost carrier:

$$C^*=QuotedPayout+E[Claims+Refunds+Delay+Cancellation+Support+ReputationLoss]$$

Estimate the added loss after adjusting for lane, job complexity, season and customer mix. Track acceptance, on-time pickup/delivery, communication, cancellations, claims, refunds, complaint severity and verified customer outcomes.

Current authority, insurance, licensing and compliance requirements are hard gates where applicable. A predicted margin advantage never overrides them. Quality estimates should shrink toward an appropriate prior when sample sizes are small and must not punish a carrier merely for receiving harder jobs.


Offer, Price and Auction Arbitrage
Price elasticity measures response, not profit:

$$\varepsilon=\frac{\%\Delta P(Book)}{\%\Delta Price}$$

The operating objective is contribution-optimal price:

$$p^*=\arg\max_p P(Book\mid p)\,P(Service\mid p)\,[p-VariableCost(p)]$$

Estimate elasticity from randomized or plausibly exogenous price/offer variation. Observationally, higher prices often accompany harder jobs, so raw correlations can reverse the true effect. Test total price, deposit, included services, guarantees, timing and financing separately; protect fairness, disclosure, margin and service quality.

For ad auctions, calculate a matched residual:

$$AR_c=ObservedContributionPerImpression_c-ExpectedContributionPerImpression_c$$

Match intent, lane, device, time, serviceability, lag and lead quality. A cheap CPC is not auction arbitrage unless incremental realized contribution is better.


Cross-Channel Cannibalization and Exploration–Exploitation
When SEO, paid search, YouTube, email and direct traffic overlap, measure the change in total contribution—not the credit a reporting model reallocates:

$$Lift_{channel}=E[TotalContribution\mid channel\ on]-E[TotalContribution\mid channel\ off]$$

Use randomized audience, page-cluster or geography holdouts when feasible; otherwise use a defensible controlled design. Deduplicate customers and allow for conversion lag. A channel that takes credit from another channel without increasing total contribution is not incremental growth.

Reserve a bounded exploration budget for uncertain but promising actions:

$$Index_a=E[Contribution_a]+\kappa\times UncertaintyBonus_a+ValueOfInformation_a$$

Set a maximum exploration loss, exclude unsafe or capacity-breaking actions and keep exploration traffic separate in reporting. Delayed outcomes and changing capacity can make a simple bandit overconfident; evaluate completed-job contribution before allowing the policy to exploit.


Capacity Reservation, Recovery and Network Economics
Reserve scarce capacity only when the option is worth its carrying cost:

$$CRV=E[AvoidedShortageLoss+EnabledIncrementalContribution]-ReservationCost-ExpiryRisk$$

A cancellation or reschedule can be recovered when the expected recovered service value exceeds the incentive and added risk:

$$RV=\Delta P(Service)\times M-Incentive-RecoveryOperations-AddedServiceRisk$$

Recovery must benefit or fairly compensate the customer, respect consent and remain operationally feasible.

For referral partners:

$$MaxPartnerCost=\frac{P(Qualified)P(Book)P(Service)M}{RequiredReturn}$$

Deduplicate shared leads, disclose the relationship when required, measure service-level quality and pay against the contracted event—not a vanity lead count.

Competitive-abandonment capture targets verified unmet needs:

$$CSV=P(IncrementalSwitch)P(Service)M-AcquisitionAndSwitchingCost$$

Win on truthful proof, responsiveness and risk reduction. Never fabricate competitor problems, impersonate a competitor or use unsupported comparative claims.


Market Option Value, Routing Regret and Constraint-Aware Scaling
A focused corridor may create future entry options through data, reviews, carrier density and brand recall:

$$OV=\sum_t\frac{P(ExpansionState_t)\times IncrementalFutureContribution_t}{(1+r)^t}-EntryInvestment$$

Until the expansion effect is measured, keep option value as a labeled scenario—not current revenue and not an additional bucket on top of today's contribution.

For each lead, compare the chosen feasible action with the best feasible action known in hindsight:

$$Regret=Contribution(BestFeasibleAction)-Contribution(ChosenAction)$$

Actions can include salesperson, carrier, offer, follow-up timing, content sequence or suppression. Regret is meaningful only after enforcing what was knowable and feasible at decision time.

Every bottleneck has a shadow price:

$$\lambda_k=\text{marginal expected contribution lost from one additional unit of bottleneck }k$$

When sales, carrier, service, support or claims capacity is constrained, add the shadow price to acquisition economics and throttle low-value demand. Scaling demand into a binding bottleneck can reduce total contribution even when CPL improves.


Adversarial-Data Protection
Bots, duplicates, competitor submissions, test forms, synthetic completions, affiliate manipulation and incorrect outcome labels can poison bidding, pricing and audience models.

$$AEL=P(Abuse\mid evidence)\times ContaminationLoss+P(FalsePositive)\times CustomerLoss$$

Use layered controls: server-side validation, velocity and identity-consistency checks, duplicate resolution, source/outcome reconciliation, anomaly cohorts, delayed labels and manual review for high-value anomalies. Quarantine suspicious events from automated bidding and model training until resolved.

Do not treat a risk score as guilt. Measure false positives, preserve appeal/review paths and never use protected attributes or inappropriate proxies. A clean conversion label must link to a real qualified, booked, serviced and financially reconciled outcome at the correct grain.


Advanced Formula Registry
Use the equations as a linked system. First establish incremental completed-job contribution; then adjust it for direction, uncertainty, quality, timing, capacity and risk. Never add overlapping option, referral, recovery, assist or channel values to the same job. Inputs must carry cohort, time window, uncertainty, source and model version.

Advanced economic equations


Model

Formula

Decision use

Required evidence

Hard caveat
Adversarial expected loss	AEL = P(abuse|evidence) × contamination loss + P(false positive) × customer loss	Set quarantine and manual-review thresholds	Resolved abuse labels, legitimate cohort cost and calibration	Never silently punish protected or proxy-defined groups
Auction residual	ARc = observed contribution per impressionc − expected contribution for matched quality/mix	Find underpriced time, device, query or placement cohorts	Matched baseline with intent, lane, device, time and outcome lag	A cheap CPM/CPC is not positive residual value
Bundle synergy	Synergy(J) = M(feasible bundle J) − Σ M(stand-alone job j)	Value compatible multi-job consolidation	Route feasibility, cube/weight, dates, labor, risk and stand-alone economics	Positive arithmetic cannot override service or safety constraints
Capacity reservation value	CRV = E[avoided shortage loss + enabled incremental contribution] − reservation cost − expiry risk	Decide whether future capacity should be reserved	Shortage probability, capacity reliability, utilization and margin scenarios	Do not count the same enabled job twice
Capacity shadow price	λk = marginal expected contribution lost from one additional unit of bottleneck k	Reduce acquisition when operational congestion becomes expensive	Capacity, queue delay, SLA and outcome response curves	Hard safety/compliance limits cannot be bought through
Channel incrementality	Liftchannel = E[total contribution | channel on] − E[total contribution | channel off]	Measure value net of cannibalized direct/organic behavior	Randomized holdout, geo test or credible causal control	Attribution-path credit cannot substitute
Competitive-switch value	CSV = P(incremental switch) × P(service) × M − acquisition and switching cost	Price competitive-abandonment acquisition	Switch-intent cohort and incremental conversion design	Do not invent competitor failures or exploit sensitive events
Contribution-optimal price	p* = argmaxp P(book|p) × P(service|p) × [p − variable cost(p)]	Choose price or offer based on contribution	Elasticity, fulfillment cost, cancellation and mix by offer	Subject to legal, disclosure, fairness and brand constraints
Decaying lead value	V(τ) = P(book|state,τ) × P(accept) × P(service) × M − remaining follow-up cost	Change follow-up spend as lead age and move window change	Cohort survival/hazard by lead age and move date	Estimate nonmonotonic urgency; do not assume simple exponential decay
Directional asymmetry	ΔV(o,d) = E[V(o→d)] − E[V(d→o)]	Separate direction-specific bid ceilings and strategy	Demand, conversion, carrier, service and margin by direction	Never infer the reverse direction from the forward lane
Exploration index	Indexa = E[contributiona] + κ × uncertainty bonus + value of informationa	Allocate a bounded discovery budget	Outcome distributions, delayed feedback and explicit loss limits	κ is a house policy; safety/compliance gates always dominate
Flexibility option value	FOV = max feasible E[M | allowed window] − E[M | fixed requested schedule]	Share operational value created by customer flexibility	Capacity scenarios, service windows and customer-approved constraints	Flexibility does not erase promised windows
Market option value	OV = Σt P(expansion state t) × incremental future contributiont/(1+r)^t − entry investment	Value reusable market learning separately from current operations	Scenario probabilities, dependencies and no-double-count map	Report as option/scenario value until realized
Price elasticity	ε = (%Δ booking probability)/(%Δ price)	Model how price affects booking	Randomized or defensibly exogenous price variation	Observational price differences are heavily confounded
Quality-adjusted carrier cost	C* = quoted payout + E[claims + refunds + delay + cancellation + support + reputation loss]	Compare carriers on expected total fulfillment cost	Carrier-specific outcomes normalized for lane and job mix	Do not infer causal carrier quality from unadjusted case mix
19 results
Page 1 of 2



Control Gates Before Automation
A high predicted return is insufficient. The action must also pass identity, serviceability, quality, consent, capacity, compliance, uncertainty and data-integrity gates. Hard-gate failures stop or constrain the action before the economic score is considered. Every automated decision needs a receipt showing the inputs, gate states, model/rule version, uncertainty and eventual outcome.

Advanced economic control gates


Gate

Pass condition

Failure action

Required receipt
Bundle feasibility	Dates, route, capacity, equipment, labor, customer promises and compliance all fit	Value jobs independently; reject infeasible bundle	Feasibility result and responsible operations owner
Capacity reservation	Binding capacity, shortage probability and expected utilization are verified	Do not capitalize speculative availability	Terms, expiry, scenario calculation and owner
Carrier quality	Quality-adjusted expected cost and minimum service standards pass	Exclude or limit carrier regardless of cheap quote	Mix-adjusted outcome history and current authority/insurance checks where applicable
Channel incrementality	Holdout/control and total-outcome measurement exist	Label channel results attributed only	Treatment, control, overlap and total contribution
Constraint headroom	Sales, verification, QA, carrier and support remain inside service-level limits	Throttle acquisition or increase verified capacity	Current capacity, forecast load and active bottleneck
Customer flexibility	Exact flexibility was affirmatively provided and retained in the service record	Use requested dates; do not assume flexibility	Approved window and promise shown to customer
Data integrity	Identity resolution, deduplication, bot/fraud screening and label quality pass	Quarantine from bidding/training and review	Evidence, model/rule version, disposition and false-positive audit
Directional identity	Origin, destination and direction are explicit and serviceable	Do not pool, bid or generalize across directions	Lane definition, exclusions and observation window
Exploration budget	Loss cap, eligible action set and delayed-outcome policy are explicit	Exploit proven actions or run a bounded manual pilot	Budget cap, priors, update cadence and kill rule
Price/offer experiment	Disclosure, legal, fairness, brand and measurement design approved	Hold one policy; do not infer elasticity	Variants, assignment, exclusions, MDE and stop rule
Quote uncertainty	Critical inventory/access/date inputs present or downside-adjusted ceiling approved	Collect data, route to verification or reduce bid	Known inputs, uncertainty range and correction risk
Recovery eligibility	Customer benefit, consent, service feasibility and positive incremental value pass	Honor cancellation/reschedule without pressure	Reason, offer, consent, result and downstream outcome

Advanced Economic Operating Algorithm
Define the directional market, decision time and atomic economic unit.
Validate identity, deduplicate records and quarantine suspicious events.
Calculate stand-alone completed-job contribution with all variable and expected risk costs.
Enumerate only feasible actions and bundles under customer, service, legal and capacity constraints.
Estimate lead decay, quote uncertainty, carrier quality, elasticity and bottleneck shadow prices.
Apply the hard gates before comparing economic scores.
Choose the risk-adjusted bid, price, payout, reservation, recovery or routing action.
Allocate a separate, loss-capped exploration budget; do not disguise exploration as proven scaling.
Measure total incrementality across channels and keep attribution lenses separate.
Reconcile completed service, customer outcomes and realized contribution.
Calculate forecast error, regret, calibration drift, contamination and constraint breaches.
Update a new immutable model/rule version; retain the prior decision and its receipt.

Permanent Laws for Advanced Economic Targeting
Direction is a variable; a corridor is not automatically reversible.
A bundle creates value only when every included job remains feasible and its promises are preserved.
Time and uncertainty change economic value.
A carrier quote is not quality-adjusted fulfillment cost.
Customer flexibility requires an explicit option and recorded consent.
Optimize price for incremental contribution and service—not close rate alone.
Attribution is not incrementality, and overlapping channel lenses cannot be added.
Capacity has a shadow price; acquisition must respect the binding constraint.
Option value is not current revenue.
Suspicious or corrupted labels cannot govern automated learning.
Protected, inappropriate or unverifiable personal attributes do not belong in bidding, routing or fulfillment models.
No HOUSE coefficient or threshold becomes a fact until calibrated, monitored and versioned.

Technical Search Diagnostic Engine
Google officially describes crawl, index and serve; JavaScript processing includes rendering. The expanded chain below is our diagnostic state machine—not a claim that Google exposes ten literal systems:

$$Discover\rightarrow Access\rightarrow Crawl\rightarrow Render\rightarrow Index\rightarrow Canonical\rightarrow Retrieve\rightarrow Rank/Select\rightarrow Click/Act\rightarrow Convert/Retain$$

A later-stage optimization cannot repair an earlier-stage failure. Always validate the measurement and fix the earliest failed prerequisite first.


Conditional Funnel
For one defined URL/query cohort:

$$P(Convert)=P(D)P(A|D)P(C|A)P(R|C)P(I|R)P(K|I)P(V|K)P(S|V)P(L|S)P(Y|L)$$

$$T_{i\rightarrow j}=\frac{cohort\ members\ reaching\ j}{cohort\ members\ reaching\ i}$$

The chain is conditional; it does not assume stages are independent. A successful 2xx permits processing but does not guarantee indexing. A robots-blocked URL can sometimes be represented from links while its content cannot be fetched. A noindex directive works only after fetch. The engine may select a different canonical. Indexing creates eligibility, never guaranteed serving.


Render Parity
Compare raw HTML, rendered HTML and user-visible output. For required elements (E):

$$RenderParity=\frac{\sum_{e\in E}w_e1[e\ present\ rendered]}{\sum_{e\in E}w_e}$$

HOUSE: critical title, canonical, primary content, H1, core links and required structured data = 100%; all scored content ≥95%. Prefer resilient server-visible critical content. JavaScript is not inherently bad, but a failed/delayed dependency is a diagnosable availability risk. Google's JavaScript SEO guidance explains crawling, rendering and indexing behavior.


Earliest-Failure Algorithm
Verify URL/canonical identity, date, locale, device, query class, tags, reporting lag and completeness.
Discover: internal link, correct sitemap, rendered graph, external discovery.
Access/Crawl: DNS, authentication, robots, firewall, HTTP, redirects, logs, live inspection.
Render: critical content/links/metadata and required resources.
Index/Canonical: no unintended noindex, meaningful successful page, coherent duplicate signals, selected canonical.
Retrieve: frozen page–query panel by geography/device/surface. A reported zero can be censored.
Rank/Select: compare task fit, evidence, authority, format, freshness and actual competitors.
Click/Act: normalize for exposure, position and result type; audit promise.
Convert/Retain: tracking, speed, trust, offer, form, pricing, fulfillment, margin and retention.
Do not resubmit a crawled-but-not-indexed page repeatedly without fixing the diagnosed cause. Do not use one personalized manual search as ranking evidence.


Time-to-Stage and Priority
Track first discovery, verified crawl, render, index, impression, click and valid conversion. There is no universal indexing SLA. Estimate survival (S(t)=P(T>t)) from your own comparable page classes so still-waiting pages remain censored rather than labeled permanent failures.

HOUSE alert:

$$Elapsed>1.5\times P95(historical\ time\ to\ same\ stage)$$

only with an adequate comparable cohort.

$$DiagnosticPriority=\frac{BusinessValue\times FailureRate\times Fixability\times EvidenceConfidence}{EstimatedCost}$$

Homepage failure, accidental priority noindex, wrong canonical, migration redirect failure, security/manual-action issues and broken mission-critical paths override the score.

Technical search diagnostic state machine


Stage

Required observable

Failure condition

First test

First action
1. Discover	URL appears in crawl sources, links or submitted inventory	Unknown to the discovery system	Internal inlinks, sitemap membership and known external references	Expose through justified crawlable links and clean submission
2. Access	Crawler can fetch a permitted response	Robots, authentication, firewall, DNS or status blocks access	Live URL inspection plus raw HTTP/robots tests	Remove unintended access barriers
3. Crawl	Successful fetch with useful response and stable URL	Errors, loops, soft 404s, traps or waste dominate	Logs and segmented status-code/crawl reports	Fix server/redirect traps before content tuning
4. Render	Rendered primary content, links and metadata match intended output	Critical content requires failed or delayed execution	Rendered HTML versus raw HTML and browser output	Make critical content resilient and server-visible
5. Index	Eligible canonical document is stored/indexed	Noindex, duplication, low-value exclusion or policy issue	URL inspection and template-level index coverage	Resolve directive/quality/duplicate cause; do not resubmit blindly
6. Canonical	Declared, linked, redirected and selected canonical agree	Signals split across variants	Inspect declared and engine-selected canonical plus inlinks	Consolidate all canonical signals
7. Retrieve	Page appears for a controlled relevant query set	Document is indexed but absent from candidate sets	Exact, entity, passage and task queries across a fixed panel	Repair lexical/entity/task relevance and internal context
8. Rank/select	Competitive position or AI citation after retrieval	Retrieved but consistently outranked/unselected	Matched comparison of relevance, evidence, authority, format and freshness	Fix the largest evidenced gap; do not change every variable
9. Click/act	Qualified examination becomes a click, call, citation-assisted visit or other action	Visibility does not produce qualified choice	Normalize by position/device/feature and audit promise	Align title, snippet, surface and offer
10. Convert/retain	User completes the valuable job with acceptable margin	Traffic or attention fails economically	Funnel, lead quality, margin and causal attribution	Repair proposition and journey or stop scaling acquisition

Search-Ecosystem Monitoring and Cause Classification
Monitor the causal chain, not a single dashboard:

$$Clicks=Impressions\times CTR$$

$$Conversions=Clicks\times LandingConversionRate$$

$$Contribution=Conversions\times ContributionPerConversion$$

For small proportional changes:

$$\Delta\ln Contribution\approx\Delta\ln Impressions+\Delta\ln CTR+\Delta\ln CVR+\Delta\ln Value$$

This decomposition prevents a tracking or offer failure from being mislabeled a ranking loss.


Required Observation Streams
Maintain a deployment/change ledger; raw and rendered crawls; server/CDN logs; robots/sitemap checks; Search Console Crawl Stats, Page Indexing, URL Inspection samples and page/query/device/country/appearance data; analytics; CRM/finance outcomes; Trends; official status/update history; manual actions/security; competitor/result-type samples; and versioned AI prompt panels.

Every release receipt records timestamp, affected URLs/templates, title/content/canonical/robots/link changes, expected metric/direction, owner, rollback, window and control. Without the ledger, temporal attribution is guesswork.


Compare to an Expected Baseline
$$y_t=Trend_t+Seasonality_t+\beta X_t+\epsilon_t$$

$$Impact_t=\frac{y_t-\hat y_t}{\hat y_t}$$

$$z_t=\frac{y_t-\hat y_t}{1.4826\times MAD(\epsilon)}$$

HOUSE traffic alert for a stable adequate-volume metric: residual decline ≥20%, robust (z\le-3), persisting for two complete periods. At low counts, aggregate or use a count/proportion model instead of percentage alerts.

For gradual drift use EWMA:

$$Z_t=\lambda X_t+(1-\lambda)Z_{t-1}$$

HOUSE starting values (lambda=0.20,L=3); calibrate against false-alert cost. NIST documents EWMA and CUSUM methods.


Search and AI Volatility
Discount ranked URLs:

$$w(u,t)=1/\log_2(rank(u,t)+1)$$

$$SERPVolatility_t=1-\frac{\sum_u\min(w_{u,t},w_{u,t-1})}{\sum_u\max(w_{u,t},w_{u,t-1})}$$

Alert when cluster volatility exceeds its rolling median by 3 MAD; do not impose a universal SERP threshold.

For a locked, versioned AI panel:

$$CitationRate=valid\ responses\ citing\ entity/valid\ responses$$

$$CitationPersistence=J_w(Sources_t,Sources_{t-1})$$

Record engine/model/surface, account state, location, prompt, date and cited URL; use Wilson intervals. AI sampling variance is not deterministic ranking change.


Root-Cause Algorithm and Evidence Score
Validate data → locate scope → find earliest failed state → build release/event timeline → test external demand → inspect result-set/surface change → test hypotheses with controls → score causes → reverse confirmed blockers or test uncertainty → record outcome.

HOUSE heuristic:

$$CES_c=clip(0.35M+0.25T+0.20S+0.15C+0.05R-0.30X,0,1)$$

(M) mechanism evidence, (T) timing, (S) expected fingerprint, (C) control divergence, (R) reproducibility, (X) contradictions.

HOUSE language: ≥0.80 high-confidence cause; 0.60–0.79 probable; 0.40–0.59 possible; below 0.40 weak. This is not probability. “Google update” is a tested hypothesis, never the default explanation.

Root-cause diagnostic fingerprints


Observation

Likely class

Required confirmation
Abrupt loss with Manual Action or Security report	Direct spam/security/manual-action incident	Search Console direct evidence and affected scope
AI citations change while classic organic remains stable	AI source-selection or sampling volatility	Frozen prompt panel, engine/model context and adequate repeats
Broad visibility loss near announced update; technical state healthy	Possible ranking-system change	Relative cohorts, result-set changes and mechanism evidence; date alone is insufficient
Clicks down; impressions and comparable positions stable	Choice, snippet or result-layout change	Query, device, search appearance, title/snippet and qualified action
Clicks stable; qualified conversions or margin fall	Journey, offer, operations or conversion tracking	CRM/finance and funnel-step instrumentation
Dominant same-domain landing URL repeatedly switches	Ambiguous roles or cannibalization	Weighted query overlap plus demonstrated outcome harm
Impressions down; comparable positions stable; Trends demand down	Demand or seasonality	Same topic, region and matched-time comparison
Indexed population falls while crawl/index errors rise	Technical access, crawl, rendering or index failure	Page Indexing, logs and URL Inspection samples
Loss follows migration; redirects/canonicals disagree	Migration consolidation failure	Old/new map, status, canonical, links, sitemap and index state
One directory drops immediately after a template deployment	Owned technical/content change	Affected-versus-control template and exact release diff
Result types move from articles to video, local, forum or AI	Intent or surface shift	Repeated SERP classification by device, locale and date
Search Console clicks stable; analytics organic sessions fall	Analytics, consent or landing instrumentation	Server landing logs and tag execution
Slow decline on freshness-sensitive queries as newer evidence wins	Content or evidence decay	Query class, competitor freshness, factual changes and page history
Specific competitors replace the property; demand/site health stable	Competitor or relevance/evidence advantage	Changed pages, format, evidence, authority and result fit

Monitoring Cadence
Immediate: homepage/priority status, robots/sitemap, accidental noindex, canonical/template deployment, security and analytics-tag failure.
Daily ingestion: logs, crawl errors, recent Search Console with lag labels, analytics/conversion, change ledger.
Weekly: query/page clusters, index yield, time-to-stage, landing-page switching, SERP/citation volatility and result-type change.
Monthly: full rendered canonical graph, orphan/depth/internal PageRank, crawl inventory, consolidation candidates, architecture and rule review.
Search Console data can lag and omit anonymized queries. Never make an irreversible decision from preliminary or incomplete data.

Search ecosystem monitoring triggers


Signal

Statistic

House trigger

Confirmation

Not proof of
AI retrieval/citation	Retrieved and cited share on frozen prompt panel	>20% relative change across 2 panel runs	Model/version, prompt, region and source changes	Population-wide AI visibility
Brand demand	Branded impressions, direct visits and unaided awareness	Directional agreement across 2 independent signals	Campaign calendar and matched market	Authority by itself
Canonical disagreement	Declared versus selected canonical agreement	<95% or >5-point decline	Duplicate clusters, redirects and internal links	Engine malfunction
Conversions	Incremental or qualified conversion rate	>15% adverse residual with adequate sample	Tracking health, mix, offer and operations	SEO cause
Crawl failures	Error-rate change by template	>2 percentage points and >50 URLs for 2 runs	Server logs, status samples and deployment timeline	Ranking-system change
External rules/features	Official documentation, policy or interface change log	Material change affecting an active rule	Primary source plus observed implementation	Immediate traffic impact
Indexation yield	Indexed / valid submitted canonicals	>10% relative decline for 7 days	URL inspection sample and template segmentation	Content penalty
Normalized CTR	Observed / expected CTR by position-device-feature cohort	95% interval excludes 1 for 2 periods	Title/snippet, feature mix and landing promise	Copy quality alone
Organic demand	Impressions after seasonality and query-mix controls	>15% residual change for 2 periods	Trends, paid demand, brand/nonbrand and geography	Site quality change
Ranking distribution	Share in top 3/10/20 over a fixed query panel	>2 robust standard deviations for 2 observations	SERP composition, competitors and page changes	One named update

Knowledge-Base Governance: Rules as Versioned Decision Objects
A “law” is not timeless prose. It is a versioned, scoped decision object with provenance, confidence, owner, expiry, tests and immutable history. W3C PROV supplies provenance concepts; RFC 2119 supplies precise MUST/SHOULD/MAY language; Semantic Versioning inspires immutable change semantics. Applying SemVer to knowledge rules is a HOUSE adaptation, not SemVer's original software-API use.


Mandatory Rule Schema
rule_id; title; canonical_statement; normative_level; rule_type; evidence_class; claim_ids; source_ids; scope; exclusions; required_inputs; algorithm; formula; threshold; output_decisions; guardrails; confidence_vector; status; owner; approver; created_at; verified_at; valid_from; next_review_at; expiration_triggers; version; supersedes; superseded_by; exceptions; dependencies; tests/receipts; change_log.

Scope includes engine, surface, market, language, device, query type, page type and date/version. Uppercase MUST only for an absolute internal requirement; SHOULD requires a documented exception rationale; MAY is optional.


Evidence Classes Are Question-Dependent
Use: OFFICIAL_PLATFORM, NORMATIVE_STANDARD_OR_LAW, PRIMARY_CAUSAL_RESEARCH, PRIMARY_OBSERVATIONAL_RESEARCH, REPLICATION_OR_SYNTHESIS, INDUSTRY_METHOD, INTERNAL_EXPERIMENT, INTERNAL_OBSERVATION, HOUSE_HYPOTHESIS.

No class wins every question. Official Google documentation is strongest for Google's stated eligibility/policy; a causal first-party experiment can be stronger for the size of your site's outcome; industry correlation cannot become “Google requires.”


Rule Confidence and Activation
$$\mathbf C_{rule}=(EvidenceReliability,ScopeFit,Freshness,CausalID,Transferability,MeasurementQuality)$$

Hard decision confidence (C_{gate}=\min(\mathbf C)). Triage confidence may use (C_{op}=\prod_k C_k^{w_k}), with weights stored on the rule. Neither is literal probability.

$$RuleValid=SchemaComplete\land ProvenanceComplete\land ScopeDefined\land OwnerAssigned\land EvidenceGatePass\land NotPastReview\land NoBlockingConflict\land TestsAttached$$

ACTIVE requires 100% mandatory fields, 100% critical-claim evidence coverage and no unresolved critical conflict. A composite score cannot override a failed gate.


Immutable Versioning and Supersession
HOUSE mapping:

MAJOR X: meaning, scope, formula, threshold or output can change the decision.
MINOR Y: backward-compatible scope, example, source or optional method.
PATCH Z: typo, citation or clarification that cannot change a decision.
Released versions never mutate. A replacement becomes a new Entity with a SUPERSEDES edge; the old record receives superseded_by and remains auditable. A major change traverses dependencies and queues dependent laws for review. Exceptions are separate expiring objects with exact scope, rationale, risk, controls, approver, dates, evidence and outcome.


Expiry and Revalidation
$$P_{stale}=1-2^{-age/h}$$

$$ReviewPriority=\frac{Impact\times UsageExposure\times DecisionSensitivity\times P_{stale}\times(1+ConflictSeverity)}{ReviewCost}$$

Event triggers outrank calendar: official source change/disappearance, engine or product release, regulation, primary contradiction, failed replication, effect interval crossing the action threshold, calibration drift, scope change or upstream supersession.

Revalidation: freeze current version and dependency graph → verify source revision and evidence fingerprint → retrieve current primary sources → atomize changes → redo dependence/conflict analysis → rerun formulas/tests → compare output decision → issue appropriate new version → cascade dependency review → record reviewer, inputs, code/model version, diff, rationale and receipts → activate only if gates pass.


Decision Receipts and Governance Metrics
Every execution records rule ID/version, input snapshot, formula/code version, result, uncertainty, exceptions, required human approval and downstream outcome.

Track: schema completeness; provenance completeness; stale-usage rate; supersession lag; exception rate; unresolved-conflict age; review SLA; and calibration. If genuine probabilities are published, score calibration with:

$$Brier=\frac1N\sum_i(p_i-y_i)^2$$

HOUSE drift trigger: rolling Brier worsens at least 25% relative to a stable prior window, or resolution falls outside the 95% prediction interval for two review windows. Mark affected models/rules CONTESTED and review; do not silently continue.

Knowledge-base governance states


State

Entry condition

Allowed action

Required receipt

Exit condition
Active	Schema, provenance, evidence and review gates pass	Govern decisions within exact scope	Version, sources, confidence, owner and next review	Contested, Suspended, Superseded, Exception or expiry
Contested	Credible contradiction, drift or expired critical evidence	Pause high-impact use; investigate and revalidate	Conflict, affected dependencies and review owner	Return to Active, Supersede, Suspend or Retire
Draft	Incomplete or unreviewed claim/rule	Research only; cannot govern production	Claim ID, owner, scope and proposed measure	Evidence review moves to Provisional, Active or Rejected
Exception	Named scope makes an active rule harmful/inapplicable	Depart only within approved assets and dates	Approver, rationale, risk, controls and expiry	Expires, is withdrawn or triggers scoped rule revision
Provisional	Bounded-use rule with material uncertainty	Use only inside named test scope and guardrails	Uncertainty label, protocol, expiry and rollback	Evidence promotes, contests, revises or rejects
Rejected	Evidence fails, harm exceeds value or claim is unfalsifiable	Retain as negative knowledge	Failure evidence and reopening condition	Reopen only as a new Draft with materially new evidence
Retired	No longer applicable and not replaced	Historical audit only	Reason, scope and retirement date	Terminal unless materially new scope reopens as Draft
Superseded	A newer immutable version replaces this rule	Historical audit only; never current execution	Forward/back links and migration note	Terminal historical state
Suspended	Urgent safety, legal, security or compliance stop	No production use except approved containment	Incident, authority, scope and restart gate	Review restores, supersedes or retires

The Unified Search-Intelligence Algorithm
Define the user job and explicit constraints; split atomic subquestions.
Estimate latent demand from independent search, first-party, paid and community evidence; retain uncertainty.
Select an asset host and discovery surface using eligibility, fit, NEV, ownership and dependency risk.
Design the canonical information architecture across user, crawler and canonical graphs.
Build the evidence graph; atomize claims, preserve provenance and resolve contradictions.
Create the asset to pass task, lexical, semantic, entity, passage, format, promise and accessibility gates.
Verify the technical state machine from discovery through canonicalization before judging retrieval or rank.
Publish a frozen rule/content version with owner, inputs, tests, rollback and receipt.
Measure retrieval, selection, examination, choice, qualified action and contribution separately.
Estimate incrementality with the strongest feasible counterfactual; keep attribution as a labeled descriptive lens.
Monitor residuals and drift, classify causes by mechanism and controls, and fix the earliest failed stage.
Revalidate or supersede every rule by risk, factual half-life, source change, contradiction and prediction error.
This is the core loop: observe → model → decide → execute → measure → learn → govern.


Non-Negotiable Laws of the System
Ranking is an outcome; authority is conditional capacity; neither equals truth.
Relevance, authority, quality, eligibility, choice and economics remain separate variables.
A host is not a surface, and rented reach is not owned authority.
A zero in a tool is censored evidence, not proof of zero demand.
Search-engine eligibility is a gate, not a guarantee.
One source copied ten times is one origin.
A manual score is not a probability.
A click is not satisfaction, truth, incrementality or profit.
Attribution is not causality; assists and zero-click lenses overlap.
A later-stage metric cannot diagnose an earlier-stage failure.
An alert opens an investigation; it does not name a cause.
Official, research and house claims must always be visibly distinguishable.
Every threshold must declare its calibration population and review trigger.
Every critical claim must have current provenance and no unresolved material contradiction.
Every law is immutable once released; corrections create a new version and supersession trail.

Cross-Cutting Model-Risk Caveats
None of these formulas reconstructs a search or AI ranking system.
Rater guidelines describe evaluation concepts; raters do not directly set rankings.
BM25, embeddings, RRF, internal PageRank and choice models are diagnostic/research tools.
Search Console averages, impressions and query rows vary by surface and omit some data.
CTR is conditioned by examination, position, layout, device, intent, brand and competitors.
Community examples reveal language and hypotheses, not market prevalence.
AI answers are stochastic and panel-specific; preserve engine, prompt, context and run count.
GA4 credit depends on scope, model and lookback; it is not incrementality.
Zero-click visibility carries no defensible dollar value until downstream lift is measured.
Difference-in-differences and synthetic controls require credible assumptions and stable measurement.
Calendar expiry means “review required,” not “claim false.”
Legal, medical, financial, safety and compliance decisions require current authoritative review at point of use.
Backtest HOUSE weights and thresholds at least quarterly or when drift triggers; keep history immutable.

Prohibited Practices
keyword-density targets
arbitrary word-count targets
one page per keyword variant
hidden text or links
doorway/location pages without real distinct value
mass AI pages without editorial value
fake authors, reviewers, dates, reviews or credentials
purchased followed links or disguised sponsorships
schema for invisible or nonexistent content
redirects to irrelevant destinations
using robots.txt as privacy control
publishing claims without traceable evidence
declaring causation from simple before/after movement
optimizing CTR with misleading promises
reporting Domain Rating, Authority Score, Site Health or Visibility Index as Google metrics
changing multiple variables when the goal is to learn one variable’s effect
scaling a tactic before measurement demonstrates a worthwhile pattern

Exceptions and Decision Authority
A house law may be overridden only when the exception record contains:

the exact law,
the affected scope,
the evidence requiring an exception,
the risk of following versus overriding,
the approver,
the expiration/review date,
the measurement and rollback plan.
Order of authority:

Law/safety/accessibility → platform eligibility → factual truth → user task → business objective → house heuristic → tool recommendation

A lower item cannot overrule a higher item.


Caveats
Search systems change; platform-specific hard rules must be rechecked when documentation changes.
House thresholds create consistent decisions but are not claimed as universal ranking thresholds.
Third-party traffic, difficulty, authority and visibility data are estimates.
SERPs vary by place, device, language, personalization and time.
Controlled SEO tests require sufficient comparable pages and stable pre-trends; otherwise conclusions remain probabilistic.
Strong psychology cannot rescue a false promise, irrelevant page or broken product.
No compliant method guarantees crawling, indexing, ranking, rich results, AI citation or traffic.


